《纪伯伦散文-流浪者》查看《纪伯伦散文-流浪者》书评和最新更新以及相关书籍推荐请到《纪伯伦散文-流浪者》专题网址http://www.xiaoshuotxt.com/sanwen/2760/ 
TXT小说天堂  http://www.xiaoshuotxt.com，最有文艺气息的文学网站，提供经典的文学名著、武侠小说、言情小说、人文社科类书籍在线阅读，所有TXT电子书手机免费下载阅读，我们提供给您的小说不求最多，但求最经典最完整



流浪者

～小  说t  xt 天,堂
流浪者

我在十字路口遇见他，一个光穿一件披风，技一根拐杖的人，脸上蒙着一层痛苦之纱。我们互相致意问好，我向他说：来我家里来做客吧？"他就来了。 

我的妻和我的孩子们在大门口迎接我们，他对她们莞尔微笑．她们欢迎他的光临。

我们一同坐下来就餐。同这个人在一起，我们感到愉快，因为他身上自有一种沉静和一种神秘。

wＷw：xiaoshuotxt？com



衣衫（Garments）

！小＠说＃txt＄天＾堂＆
衣衫（garments）

有一天，美和丑在海边邂逅，他们互相怂恿："咱们到海里去游泳吧。

于是他们脱下衣衫，在海水里游泳。过了一会儿，丑回到海岸穿上本来属于美的衣衫，径自走他的路了。

接着美也从海里出来了，找不到她自己的衣衫，她又太羞怯，不敢赤身裸体，于是她只好给自己穿上本来属于丑的衣衫。美也径自走她的路了。

所以，直至今日，世上的男男女女，错把丑当作美、美当作丑。

然而，有些人看见过美的真面目，尽管她穿错了衣服，他们还是能认出她来。有些人认得丑的真面目，衣衫蒙骗不了他们的眼睛。

garments

upon a day beauty and ugliness met on the shore of a sea. and they said to one another, "let us bathe in the sea." 

then they disrobed and swam in the waters. and after a while ugliness came back to shore and garmented himself with the garments of beauty and walked away. 

and beauty too came out of the sea, and found not her raiment, and she was too shy to be naked, therefore she dressed herself with the raiment of ugliness. and beauty walked her way. 

and to this very day men and women mistake the one for the other. 

yet some there are who have beheld the face of beauty, and they know her notwithstanding her garments. and some there be who know the face of ugliness, and the cloth conceals him not from their eyes. 

www-xiaoshuotxt-c o m



鹰和云雀(The Eagle And The Skylark)

。小＿说＿txt天堂
鹰和云雀(the eagle and the skylark)

一头鹰和一只云雀在一座高山的一块岩石上相遇。云雀说："祝您早安，先生。"鹰鄙夷地瞧着云雀，有气无力地说道："早晨好。"

云雀说："我祝愿您万事大吉，先生。"

"是啊，"鹰说，"我们是万事大吉大利。可你要知道，我们是众鸟之王，我们还没有开口，你就不应该先招呼我们。"

云雀说："我以为咱们是属于同一个家族的哩。"

鹰以鄙夷的神色瞧着云雀，说道："究竟谁说过你和我是属于同一个家族的？"于是云雀答道："不过，我倒要提醒你这一点：我能飞翔得同你一样高，我还能唱歌，给大地上其他生物以乐趣。而你既不给人愉快，又不给人乐趣。"

这话触怒了鹰，他说："愉快和乐趣！你这枚律的小东西胡扯些什么！你的身材不过我的一只脚那么大。只要我的嘴巴一啄，就能结果你的性命。"

于是云雀飞起来，扑在鹰的背脊上，啄起鹰的羽毛来了。这可大大激怒了鹰，他快飞高翔，想借此甩掉那只小鸟。然而他失败了，怎么也甩不掉。他终于又落在高山的那块岩石上，小东西可依旧扑在他的背脊上，他越发愤怒，咒骂着这倒霉的时辰。

此时此刻有一只小乌龟经过，对着眼前的景象哈哈大笑，她笑得前仰后合，几乎要翻身摔倒。

鹰瞧不起小乌龟，说道："你这慢慢爬行的东西，你这永远爬在土地上的东西，你笑什么？"于是乌龟答道："哎，我看见你变成了一匹马，让一只小鸟骑在你身上，不过那小鸟倒是只比你高明的鸟。"

鹰这就对乌龟说道："你少管闲事，忙你自己的事去吧。这是我和我兄弟云雀之间的家务事儿。"

the eagle and the skylark 

a skylark and an eagle met on a rock upon a high hill. the skylark said, "good morrow to you, sir." and the eagle looked down upon him and said faintly, "good morrow." 

and the skylark said, "i hope all things are well with you, sir." 

"aye," said the eagle, "all is well with us. but do you not know that we are the king of birds, and that you shall not address us before we ourselves have spoken?" 

said the skylark, "methinks we are of the same family." 

the eagle looked upon him with disdain and he said, "who ever has said that you and i are of the same family?" 

then said the skylark, "but i would remind you of this, i can fly even as high as you, and i can sing and give delight to the other creatures of this earth. and you give neither pleasure nor delight." 

then the eagle was angered, and he said, "pleasure and delight! you little presumptuous creature! with one thrust of my beak i could destroy you. you are but the size of my foot." 

then the skylark flew up and alighted upon the back of the eagle and began to pick at his feathers. the eagle was annoyed, and he flew swift and high that he might rid himself of the little bird. but he failed to do so. at last he dropped back to that very rock upon the high hill, more fretted than ever, with the little creature still upon his back, and cursing the fate of the hour. 

now at that moment a small turtle came by and laughed at the sight, and laughed so hard the she almost turned upon her back. 

and the eagle looked down upon the turtle and he said, "you slow creeping thing, ever one with the earth, what are you laughing at?" 

and the turtle said, "why i see that you are turned horse, and that you have a small bird riding you, but the small bird is the better bird." 

and the eagle said to her, "go you about your business. this is a family affair between my brother, the lark, and myself." 

www。xiaoshuotxt。com



情歌(The Love Song)

小`说`t.xt.天.堂
情歌(the love song) 

从前，有个诗人写了首情诗，诗是美丽的。他复写了几份，分送给他的朋友们和相识者，男的女的都送了，甚至送给了一位他只遇见过一次的、住在山岭那一边的年轻女子。 

一两天后，那年轻女子派人给他送来了一封信。她在信中写道："让我推心置腹地向你保证，我深深地被你写给我的情诗感动了。现在就来吧，来看望了我的父亲和我的母亲，咱们就可以为订婚作好安排了。" 

诗人复信，他在信中对她说道："我的朋友啊，这不过是出之于诗人心灵的一首情诗，由每一个男人吟唱给每一个女子听的。" 

她再一次写信给他，说道；"玩弄语言的伪君子和说谎者！从今天到我去世之日，我将因为你的缘故而憎恨一切诗人。"

the love song 

a poet once wrote a love song and it was beautiful. and he made many copies of it, and sent them to his friends and his acquaintances, both men and women, and even to a young woman whom he had met but once, who lived beyond the mountains. 

and in a day or two a messenger came from the young woman bringing a letter. and in the letter she said, "let me assure you, i am deeply touched by the love song that you have written to me. come now, and see my father and my mother, and we shall make arrangements for the betrothal." 

and the poet answered the letter, and he said to her, "my friend, it was but a song of love out of a poets heart, sung by every man to every woman." 

and she wrote again to him saying, "hypocrite and liar in words! from this day unto my coffin-day i shall hate all poets for your sake."

wwＷ、xiaoshuotxt.com



泪与笑(Tears And Laughter)

（小／／说／／t／／xt｜//天//堂）
泪与笑(tears and laughter)

黄昏时分，一只戌狗在尼罗河岸上遇到一条鳄鱼，他们停下步来，互相致意。

戌狗开口说道："先生，你的日子过得怎样？"鳄鱼答道："我的日子过很糟极了。有时候，我因痛苦和烦恼而哭泣，我一哭，人们总是说：不过是鳄鱼的眼泪罢了。这话真使我伤心，真是没法儿说。"

于是因狗说道："你讲起你的痛苦和你的烦恼，可你也替我想想吧，想一忽儿吧。我凝视着世界上的美，凝视着它的奇观和奇迹，纯粹出于内心的喜悦，我笑了，甚至像白昼一样的笑了。

而丛林里的居民们却说：不过是戌狗的笑罢了。"

tears and laughter 

upon the bank of the nile at eventide, a hyena met a crocodile and they stopped and greeted one another. 

the hyena spoke and said, "how goes the day with you, sir?" 

and the crocodile answered saying, "it goes badly with me. sometimes in my pain and sorrow i weep, and then the creatures always say, they are but crocodile tears. and this wounds me beyond all telling." 

then the hyena said, "you speak of your pain and your sorrow, but think of me also, for a moment. i gaze at the beauty of the world, its wonders and its miracles, and out of sheer joy i laugh even as the day laughs. and then the people of the jungle say, it is but the laughter of a hyena." 

ww　w.xＩaoshuotxt.。com



在市集上（At The Fair）

．小．说．．t．xt．天．堂．
在市集上(at the fair)

一个十分秀丽的姑娘从农村来赶集。她的脸上是百合花和玫瑰花的颜色。她的头发好比夕照，而曙光在她的朱唇上微笑。

这美貌的陌生人出现在年轻男子眼前不久，他们便都来追求她包围她了。这一个要同她跳舞，那一个要切一块蛋糕招待她。而他们大家都想吻她的面颊。因为说到底，难道这不是市集吗？然而这姑娘吃惊而又害怕，认为这些年轻男子都不是好人。她斥责他们，她甚至打了一两个人的脸。接着她就从他们身边逃跑了。

那天黄昏时分，在回家的路上，她心里说道："真叫人厌恶。这些男人多么没有礼貌、没有教养。简直叫人忍无可忍。"

一年过去了，在这一年里，这个十分秀丽的姑娘念念不忘市集和年轻的男子们。于是她再来赶集了，带着她脸上的百合花和玫瑰花，带着她头发里的夕照以及她嘴唇上的曙光似的微笑。

然而，如今年轻的男子们一看见她都转过身去了。整整一天她都是孤零零的，没有人来追求她。

黄昏时分，在走回家去的路上，她心里在嚷道："真叫人厌恶。这些青年多么没有礼貌、没有教养。简直叫人忍无可忍。" 

at the fair

there came to the fair a girl from the country-side, most comely. there was a lily and a rose in her face. there was a sunset in her hair, and dawn smiled upon her lips. 

no sooner did the lovely stranger appear in their sight than the young men sought her and surrounded her. one would dance with her, and another would cut a cake in her honour. and they all desired to kiss her cheek. for after all, was it not the fair? 

but the girl was shocked and started, and she thought ill of the young men. she rebuked them, and she even struck one or two of them in the face. then she ran away from them. 

and on her way home that evening she was saying in her heart, "i am disgusted. how unmannerly and ill bred are these men. it is beyond all patience." 

a year passed during which that very comely girl thought much of fairs and men. then she came again to the fair with the lily and the rose in her face, the sunset in her hair and the smile of dawn upon her lips. 

but now the young men, seeing her, turned from her. and all the day long she was unsought and alone. 

and at eventide as she walked the road toward her home she cried in her heart, "i am disgusted. how unmannerly and ill bred are these youths. it is beyond all patience."

www.xiaoshuotxt.com



两位王妃（The Two Princesses）

小.说。t。xt-天/堂
两位王妃（the two princesses）

在沙瓦基斯城里住着一个王子，不论男子、妇女、儿童，人人都爱他，甚至田野里的动物也都来向他致敬。

但老百姓都说："他的妻子，即王妃，却不爱他；不，她甚至恨他。

有一天，毗邻的城市里的一位王妃，来访问沙瓦基斯城里的王妃。她们坐在一起谈话，讲到了她们的丈夫。

沙瓦基斯城里的王妃激动地说道："我真羡慕你和你丈夫——王子一一共同生活的幸福，尽管你们已经结婚好些年头了。我憎恨我的丈夫。他不是只属于我一个人的，我确实是世界上最最不幸的女人了。"

要访的王妃便凝视着对方，说道："我的朋友历，事实的真相是你爱你的丈夫。是的，你对他还有一份尚未用尽用掉的热情，那可是一个女人身心里的生命，好比花园里的春天。然而可怜我，也可怜我的丈夫把，因为我们不过是在默默无言的忍耐中互相容忍着罢了。而你和其他的人还以为这就是幸福哩。"

the two princesses

in the city of shawakis lived a prince, and he was loved by everyone, men and women and children. even the animals of the field came unto him in greeting. 

but all the people said that his wife, the princess, loved him not; nay, that she even hated him. 

and upon a day the princess of a neighbouring city came to visit the princess of shawakis. and they sat and talked together, and their words led to their husbands. 

and the princess of sharakis said with passion, "i envy you your happiness with the prince, your husband, though you have been married these many years. i hate my husband. he belongs not to me alone, and i am indeed a woman most unhappy." 

then the visiting princess gazed at her and said, "my friend, the truth is that you love your husband. aye, and you still have him for a passion unspent, and that is life in woman like unto spring in a garden. but pity me, and my husband, for we do but endure one another in silent patience. and yet you and others deem this happiness." 

www/xiaoshuotxt.co m



闪电（The Lightning Flash）

小＿说t?xt＿天\堂
闪电（the lightning flash）

在一个大雷雨的日子里，有个基督教的主教在他的大教堂里。来了一个并非基督徒的女人，站在他的面前，问道："我不是基督徒。我能否得救，免受地狱之火的烧灼？"主教瞧瞧那女人，答复她道："不，只有那些受过圣水和圣灵的施洗礼的人们，才能得到拯救。"

就在主教说话的刹那之间，一个霹雳从天上轰隆打将下来，打在大教堂上，大教堂里到处烈火熊熊。

城里的人们纷纷跑来了，他们救出了那个女人，而主教却被大火吞灭，化为灰烬了。

the lightning flash

there was a christian bishop in his cathedral on a stormy day, and an un-christian woman came and stood before him, and she said, "i am not a christian. is there salvation for me from hell-fire?"

and the bishop looked upon the woman, and he answered her saying, "nay, there is salvation for those only who are baptized of water and of the spirit." 

and even as he spoke a bolt from the sky fell with thunder upon the cathedral and it was filled with fire. 

and the men of the city came running, and they saved the woman, but the bishop was consumed, food of the fire.

www-xiaoshuotxt-c o m



隐士和野兽（The Hermit And The Beasts）

小~说~t.xt`天~堂
隐士和野兽（the hermit and the beasts）

从前，在苍翠山岭间住着一个隐士。他是个精神纯洁和良心清白的人。大地上的一切走兽和天空里的一切飞禽都成双成对地来到他的面前，他就对它们讲话。它们心悦诚服地听他讲话，它们围了拢来，不到天黑不愿离开；天黑时他就送它们走了，以他的祝福，把它们委托给风和森林。

有一天晚上，当隐士讲到爱情的时候，一头豹抬起脑袋对隐士说道："你给我们讲到恋爱，先生，请告诉我们，你的伴侣在哪儿呢？"隐士说："我没有伴侣。"

于是在飞禽走兽群里腾起了大为诧异的喧哗之声，它们开始叽叽喳别地互相议论："他自己对此一无所知，怎么能给我们讲恋爱和结婚呢？"它们悄悄地鄙夷地走掉了，剩下隐士孤零零一个人。

那天夜间，隐士脸孔朝下倒在席子上，接着就捶胸痛哭。

the hermit and the beasts

once there lived among the green hills a hermit. he was pure of spirit and white of heart. and all the animals of the land and all the fowls of the air came to him in pairs and he spoke unto them. they heard him gladly, and they would gather near unto him, and would not go until nightfall, when he would send them away, entrusting them to the wind and the woods with his blessing. 

upon an evening as he was speaking of love, a leopard raised her head and said to the hermit, "you speak to us of loving. tell us, sir, where is your mate?" 

and the hermit said, "i have no mate." 

then a great cry of surprise rose from the company of beasts and fowls, and they began to say among themselves, "how can he tell us of loving and mating when he himself knows naught thereof?" and quietly and in distain they left him alone. 

that night the hermit lay upon his mat with his face earthward, and he wept bitterly and beat his hands upon his breast.

www。xiaoshuotxt。com



先知和孩子

～小  说t  xt 天,堂
先知和孩子

有一天，先知莎里亚在一个花园里遇见一个孩子。孩子跑到先知跟前，说道："早上好，先生。"于是先知说："早上好，先生。"一忽儿以后，又说，"我看你是独自一个人吧。"

孩子哈哈大笑，高高兴兴地说道："我花了好大功夫才摆脱了我的保姆。她以为我是在那些篱笆后面；可你岂看不到我在这花园里吗？"孩子凝望着先知的脸，又说道，称也是独自一个人啊。你怎么对付你的保姆的？"先知答道："啊，那可是另外一回事了。说句老实话，我没法儿时常摆脱我的保姆。不过，现在我进入这个花园的时候，保姆正在篱笆背后寻找我呢。"

孩子拍着手大声说道："那末，你跟我一样是迷途失踪的人了！迷途失踪岂不很好吗？"接着，孩子又问，"你是什么人户那人答道："人家管我叫先知莎里亚。你也告诉我，你是什么人？""我只不过是我自己，"孩子说道，饿的保姆正在寻找我，她不知道我在哪儿。"

于是先知凝望着天空说道：戏也是躲开我的保姆一忽儿，不过她会发现我的。"

孩子说："我知道我的保姆也会发现我的。"

就在这片刻之间，听得见有个女人在呼唤这孩子的名字。"瞧，"孩子说，"我告诉你保姆会找到我的。"

与此同时，听得见另一个声音在叫唤："莎里亚，你在哪儿？"于是先知说道："瞧，我的孩子，她们也把我找到了。"

莎里亚抬头仰望天空，回答道："我在这儿啊。"

the prophet and the child

once on a day the prophet sharia met a child in a garden. the child ran to him and said, "good morrow to you, sir," and the prophet said, "good morrow to you, sir." and in a moment, "i see that you are alone." 

then the child said, in laughter and delight, "it took a long time to lose my nurse. she thinks i am behind those hedges; but cant you see that i am here?" then he gazed at the prophets face and spoke again. "you are alone, too. what did you do with your nurse?" 

the prophet answered and said, "ah, that is a different thing. in very truth i cannot lose her oftentime. but now, when i came into this garden, she was seeking after me behind the hedges." 

the child clapped his hands and cried out, "so you are like me! isnt it good to be lost?" and then he said, "who are you?" 

and the man answered, "they call me the prophet sharia. and tell me, who are you?" 

"i am only myself," said the child, "and my nurse is seeking after me, and she does not know where i am." 

then the prophet gazed into space saying, "i too have escaped my nurse for awhile, but she will find me out." 

and the child said, "i know mine will find me out too." 

at that moment a womans voice was heard calling the childs name, "see," said the child, "i told you she would be finding me." 

and at the same moment another voice was heard, "where art thou, sharia?" 

and the prophet said, "see my child, they have found me also." 

and turning his face upward, sharia answered, "here i am." 

www。xiaoshuotxt。com



纪伯伦散文-流浪者珍珠

小,说,t，xt,天,堂
珍珠

一只蚌跟它附近的另一只蚌说："我身体里边有个极大的痛苦。

它是沉重的，圆圆的，我遭难了。"

另一只蚌怀着骄傲自满情绪答道："赞美上天也赞美大海，我身体里边毫无痛苦，我里里外外都很健全。"

这时有一只螃蟹经过，听到了两只蚌的谈话，它对那只里里外外都很健全的蚌说："是的，你是健全的，然而，你的邻居所承受的痛苦，乃是一颗异常美丽的珍珠。"

the pearl

said one oyster to a neighbouring oyster, "i have a very great pain within me. it is heavy and round and i am in distress." 

and the other oyster replied with haughty complacence, "praise be to the heavens and to the sea, i have no pain within me. i am well and whole both within and without." 

at that moment a crab was passing by and heard the two oysters, and he said to the one who was well and whole both within and without, "yes, you are well and whole; but the pain that your neighbour bears is a pearl of exceeding beauty." 

www.xiＡoshuotxＴ.cＯＭ



肉体和灵魂

小``说"t:xt..天 堂
肉体和灵魂

一个男子和一个女人坐在开向春天的窗子旁边。他们紧紧地挨在一起。女人说道："我爱你。你生得漂亮，家境富裕，始终衣冠楚楚。"

男子说道："我爱你。你是一种美丽的思想，一件超脱得难以掌握的事物，是我梦幻中的一支歌曲。"

但那女人愤愤地转过身去，说道："先生，请你现在就离开我吧。我不是一种思想，我不是经过你的梦境的一件事物。我是个女人。我愿意你指望我成为一个妻子，一个未来子女的母亲。"

于是他们分手了。

那男子在心里说道："瞧这另一个梦如今竟化成一片雾气了。"

这女人说道："唉，他竟把我看成是一片雾气一个梦了，这是个什么男子汉呀？"

www。xiaoshuotxt.c o m



国王沙迪克

×小×说×t××xt×天×堂
国王沙迪克

王国的人民包围了他们的国王的王宫，大声呐喊着反对国王。国王一手拿着王冠，一手执着王节，走下宫殿的台阶。国王的威仪使人群静了下来；国王站在人群的面前。说道："我的朋友们，你们不再是我的子民，现在我把我的王冠和三节交给你们。我愿意作你们的一分子。我不过是一个老百姓，作为一个老百姓，我愿意同你们一起工作，使我们的命运可以好起来。无需有一个国王了。因此，一让我们一起到田里和葡萄园里去，手挽手地一起劳动。只是必须告诉我，我应该到哪一块田哪一个葡萄园里去。现在你们大家都是国王了。"

人民十分诧异，大家寂然不动，因为，他们原以为国王是他们的不满的根源，如今国王却把王冠和王节交给他们，成为老百姓的一分子了。

于是老百姓各走各的路，国王便跟着一个人到田里去干活。

国王没有了，沙迪克王国也没有什么起色，大地上仍旧笼罩着不满的雾霭。老百姓在市场上大声呼吁，说是他们愿意接受管理，他们情愿有个国王来统治他们。老年人和青年人仿佛异口同声地说道："我们一定要有个国王。"

于是老百姓去寻找国王，发现国王在田里劳动，老百姓把他送到御座上，把他的王冠和三节交还给他。他们说："请以权力和正义统治我们吧。"

国王说："我要以权力统治你们，但愿天地间的众神帮助我，使我也能以正义进行统治。"

却说男男女女的老百姓来到国王面前，向他控诉了一个百般虐待他们的男爵，他们都不过是这个男爵心目中的农奴罢了。国王立刻把那男爵传来，对他说道："在上帝的秤盘上，一个人的生命同另一个人的生命，重量都是相等的。因为你不知道怎样衡量那些在你田里和葡萄园里干活的人们的生命的价值，所以你被放逐了，你必须永远离开这个王国。"

第二天，另外一群老百姓来到国王面前，控诉山岭那边的一个伯爵夫人残酷不仁，弄得他们穷困不堪。国王立刻把那伯爵夫人传到 法庭上，也判处她流放的刑罚，国王说道："那些耕种我们的田地、为我们照料葡萄园的人们，比我们高尚，我们吃的是他们做的面包，喝的是他们榨的葡萄酒。因为你不明白这个道理，你就得离开这片国 土，到那远离这个王国的地方去。"

接着，又来了男男女女的老百姓，他们控诉主教派他们搬运石头，为大教堂凿石头，可又什么报酬也不给；他们知道尽管主教的金库里放满了金银财宝，而老百姓却肚子空空的，饿得要命。

国王就召见主教，主教到来时，国王对他说道："挂在你胸前的十字架，应该意味着给生命以生命，然而你却从生命剥夺生命，自己可一毛不拔。因此，你必须离开这个王国，永不回来。"

这样，整整一个月，每天都有男男女女的老百姓来到国王面前，诉说他们不胜负担之苦；整整一个月，每天总有些压迫者被逐出国土。

沙迪克的老百姓惊讶不置，他们的心里欢欣鼓舞。

有一天，老年人和青年人都来了，把国王的高塔包围了，大声呼唤国王。国王一手拿着王冠，一手执着王节，走下塔来。

国王向老百姓说话，问道："这一回，你们要做什么事呢？瞧吧，我把你们叫我执掌的东西还给你们了。"

然而老百姓大声说道："不，不，你是我们的英明的国王。你清除了我们国土上的毒蛇，你消灭了豺狼，我们是来向你表示感恩，来歌功颂德的。庄严的王冠是属于你的，光荣的王节是属于你的。"

于是国王说道："我不是国王，不是。你们自己才是国王。你们觉得我软弱失政时，你们自己也是软弱而不善于施政的。如今田地耕种得五谷丰登，乃是因为你们大家立志要做到这一点。

我不过是你们全体老百姓脑子里的一个思想；只有你们行动起来，我才得以存在。根本没有什么统治老百姓的人。只存在着过去被统治的老百姓，如今他们自己统治管理自己。"

国王拿着王冠和王节重新进入他的高塔，年老的和年轻的老百姓各走各的路回去了，他们都是心满意足的。

沙迪克王国里，老百姓人人都以为自己是个国王，一手拿着王冠，一手执着王节。

the king

the people of the kingdom of sadik surrounded the palace of their king shouting in rebellion against him. and he came down the steps of the palace carrying his crown in one hand and his sceptre in the other. the majesty of his appearance silenced the multitude, and he stood before them and said, "my friends, who are no longer my subjects, here i yield my crown and sceptre unto you. i would be one of you. i am only one man, but as a man i would work together with you that our lot may be made better. there is no need for king. let us go therefore to the fields and the vineyards and labour hand with hand. only you must tell me to what field or vineyard i should go. all of you now are king." 

and the people marvelled, and stillness was upon them, for the king whom they had deemed the source of their discontent now yielding his crown and sceptre to them and became as one of them. 

then each and every one of them went his way, and the king walked with one man to a field. 

but the kingdom of sadik fared not better without a king, and the mist of discontent was still upon the land. the people cried out in the market places saying that they have a king to rule them. and the elders and the youths said as if with one voice, "we will have our king." 

and they sought the king and found him toiling in the field, and they brought him to his seat, and yielded unto his crown and his sceptre. and they said, "now rule us, with might and with justice." 

and he said, "i will indeed rule you with might, and may the gods of the heaven and the earth help me that i may also rule with justice." 

now, there came to his presence men and women and spoke unto him of a baron who mistreated them, and to whom they were but serfs. 

and straightway the king brought the baron before him and said, "the life of one man is as weighty in the scales of god as the life of another. and because you know not how to weigh the lives of those who work in your fiends and your vineyards, you are banished, and you shall leave this kingdom forever." 

the following day came another company to the king and spoke of the cruelty of a countess beyond the hills, and how she brought them down to misery. instantly the countess was brought to court, and the king sentenced her also to banishment, saying, "those who till our fields and care for our vineyards are nobler than we who eat the bread they prepare and drink the wine of their wine-press. and because you know not this, you shall leave this land and be afar from this kingdom." 

then came men and women who said that the bishop made them bring stones and hew the stones for the cathedral, yet he gave them naught, though they knew the bishops coffer was full of gold and silver while they themselves were empty with hunger. 

and the king called for the bishop, and when the bishop came the king spoke and said unto his, "that cross you wear upon your bosom should mean giving life unto life. but you have taken life from life and you have given none. therefore you shall leave this kingdom never to return." 

thus each day for a full moon men and women came to the king to tell him of the burdens laid upon them. and each and every day a full moon some oppressor was exiled from the land. 

and the people of sadik were amazed, and there was cheer in their heart. 

and upon a day the elders and the youths came and surrounded the tower of the king and called for him. and he came down holding his crown with one hand and his sceptre with the other. 

and he spoke unto and said, "now, what would you do of me? behold, i yield back to you that which you desired me to hold." 

but they cried. "nay, nay, you are our rightful king. you have made clean the land of vipers, and you have brought the wolves to naught, and we welcome to sing our thanksgiving unto you. the crown is yours in majesty and the sceptre is yours in glory." 

then the king said, "not i, not i. you yourselves are king. when you deemed me weak and a misruler, you yourselves were weak and misruling. and now the land fares well because it is in your will. i am but a thought in the mind of you all, and i exist not save in your actions. there is no such person as governor. only the governed exist to govern themselves." 

and the king re-entered his tower with his crown and his sceptre. and the elders and the youths went their various ways and they were content. 

and each and every one thought of himself as king with a crown in one hand and a sceptre in the other. 

ww　w　.　xia　oshu　otxt.co　m



在沙滩上

小＜说＜t＜xt＞天？>堂
在沙滩上

一个人对另一个人说道："好久以前，在大海高潮的时候，我用我手杖的尖端，在沙滩上写下了一行字，现在人们仍旧停下步来读这行字，他们还留神不让它被擦掉抹掉。"

另一个人说道："我也在沙滩上写了一行字，不过是在低潮的时候，辽阔大海的波涛把这行字冲刷掉了。可是请你告诉我，你写的是什么呢？"第一个人答道："我写道：我就是他这样的人。可你写的是什么呢？"第二个人说："我写道：我不过是这伟大海洋中的一滴水而已"

upon the sand

said one man to another, "at the high tide of the sea, long ago, with the point of my staff i wrote a line upon the sand; and the people still pause to read it, and they are careful that naught shall erase it." 

and the other man said, "and i to wrote a line upon the sand, but it was at low tide, and the waves of the vast sea washed it away. but tell me, what did you write?" 

and the first man answered and said, "i wrote this: i am he who is. but what did you write?" 

and the other man said, "this i wrote: i am but a drop of this great ocean." 

www。xiaoshuotxt。com



三件礼物

小*说**t*xt**天*堂
三件礼物

从前，在贝沙累城里住着一个宽宏大量的王子，城里所有的子民们都热爱和尊敬王子。

不过，有个十分贫穷的人，他对王子怀恨在心，不断地用他的贫嘴恶舌攻击王子。

王子知道这事，然而他耐心容忍。

但王子终于想到了这个穷人；一个冬天的寒夜里，王子的仆人来到这穷人的门前，带来一袋面粉，一小袋肥皂和一大块糖。

仆人说："王子送给你这些礼物，作个纪念。"

这穷人很得意，因为他把这些礼物看做是王子对他的一种敬意。他自豪地去见主教，把王子送他礼物的事告诉主教，并且说道："你难道看不出王子要博得我的欢心吗？"然而主教说道："啊，王子是多么聪明，你又是多么不了解他。他用象征性的东西来说话。

面粉是饱你空空如也的肚子的，肥皂是洗你肮脏的皮肤的，糖是甜你辛辣的舌头的。"

从这一天起，那穷人就变得对自己也感到害臊了。他对王子的憎恨比过去更大，他甚至更恨那给他解明王子真意的主教。

不过他从此就缄口无言了。

the three gifts

once in the city of becharre there lived a gracious prince who was loved and honoured by all his subjects. 

but there was one exceedingly poor man who was bitter against the prince, and who wagged continually a pestilent tongue in his dispraise. 

the prince knew this, yet he was patient. 

but at last he bethought him; and upon a wintry night there came to the door of the man a servant of the prince, bearing a sack of flour, a bag of soap and a cone of sugar. 

and the servant said, "the prince sends you these gifts in token of remembrance." 

the man was elated, for he thought the gifts were an homage from the prince. and in his pride we went to the bishop and told him what the prince had done, saying, "can you not see how the prince desires my goodwill?" 

but the bishop said, "oh, how wise a prince, and how little you understand. he speaks in symbols. the flour is for your empty stomach; the soap is for your dirty hide; and the sugar is to sweeten your bitter tongue." 

from that day forward the man became shy even of himself. his hatred of the prince was greater than ever, and even more he hated the bishop who had revealed the prince unto him. 

but thereafter he kept silent. 

www-xiaoshuotxt-c o m



和平与战争

小.说.t|xt.天+堂
和平与战争

三只狗一边儿晒太阳一边儿谈话。

第一只狗梦幻地说道："生活在今日的狗国里确实是奇妙非凡。想想我们在大海里、陆地上、乃至天空中旅游的舒适安逸吧。再思量一下那些为了供狗儿们享福而搞出来的创造发明吧，甚至还有专供我们的眼睛、耳朵、鼻子享用的东西哩。"

于是第二只狗接口道："比较起来，我们更加关心艺术。我们对月亮吠叫，比我们的祖先更有节奏。我们往水里凝望我们自己时，我们看见我们的容貌，比往昔的狗儿的容貌更加清晰。"

然后第三只狗说道："不过，我最感兴趣而又使我心灵愉快的，便是那存在于狗国之间的安宁的相互理解。"

就在这刹那之间，它们张眼一看，啊，捕狗者在走近来了。

三只狗窜了起来，往大街上逃跑；奔跑之际，第三只狗说道：请在上帝面上，赶紧逃命吧。文明在追捕我们哩。"

peace and war

three dogs were basking in the sun and conversing. the first dog said dreamily, "it is indeed wondrous to be living in this day of dogdom. consider the ease with which we travel under the sea, upon the earth and even in the sky. and meditate for a moment upon the inventions brought forth for the comfort of dogs, even for our eyes and ears and noses." 

and the second dog spoke and he said, "we are more heedful of the arts. we bark at the moon more rhythmically than did our forefathers. and when we gaze at ourselves in the water we see that our features are clearer than the features of yesterday." 

then the third dog spoke and said, "but what interests me most and beguiles my mind is the tranquil understanding existing between dogdoms." 

at that very moment they looked, and lo, the dog-catcher was approaching. 

the three dogs sprang up and scampered down the street; and as they ran the third dog said, "for gods sake, run for your lives. civilization is after us." 

wＷw：xiaoshuotxt？com



舞蹈家

小说txt天堂
舞蹈家

从前，有个舞蹈家，带着她的音乐师，来到别尔卡沙的王子的宫廷。她被准许入宫，她就按着诗琴、长笛和齐特拉琴的音乐，在王子的面前跳起舞来。

她跳着火焰的舞蹈，剑和矛的舞蹈；她跳着繁星之舞和宇宙空间之舞；然后她又跳着风中花齐之舞。

跳罢了舞，她站在王子的宝座之前，向王子鞠躬致意。王子吩咐她站得近一些，然后对她说道："美丽的妇人，优雅和赏心悦目的女儿，你的舞艺究竟学自何方？你是怎样以你的节奏和你的韵律，驾驭一切自然力的？"舞蹈家再次向王子鞠躬致意，然后回答道："伟大而仁慈的王子殿下，我不晓得怎样答复你的垂询，我只知道这一点：哲学家的灵魂居住在他的头脑里，诗人的灵魂深藏在他的内心里，歌唱家的灵魂回荡在他的喉咙里，可是，舞蹈家的灵魂流贯于她的全身。"

the dancer

once there came to the court of the prince of birkasha a dancer with her musicians. and she was admitted to the court, and she danced before the prince to the music the lute and the flute and the zither. 

she danced the dance of flames, and the dance of swords and spears; she danced the dance of stars and the dance of space. and then she danced the dance of flowers in the wind. 

after this she stood before the throne of the prince and bowed her body before him. and the prince bade her to come nearer, and he said unto her, "beautiful woman, daughter of grace and delight, whence comes your art? and how is it that you command all the elements in your rhythms and your rhymes?" 

and the dancer bowed again before the prince, and she answered, "mighty and gracious majesty, i know not the answer to your questionings. only this i know: the philosophers soul dwells in his head, the poets soul is in the heart; the singers soul lingers about his throat, but the soul of the dancer abides in all her body." 

ＷＷw.xiＡosＨuotxt.ＣＯＭ



两个监护天使

小``说"t:xt..天 堂
两个监护天使

一天黄昏，两个天使在城门口相遇，互相致敬，谈起话来了。

一个天使说："这些日子你在忙些什么，交给了你什么工作。"

另一个大使答道："指派我去监护一个堕落的人，他就住在下面山谷里，是个作恶多端的罪人，卑劣之至。我敢向你断言，这是个重大任务，我工作得好辛苦。"

第一个天使说道："那是个轻而易举的差使。我时常碰到罪人，好几次作过他们的监护者。

然而现在指派我去监护一个善良的圣徒，他就住在那边的村舍里。我敢向你断言，这是件十分艰巨的工作，而且微妙极了。"

第二个天使说道："这不过是臆测罢了。一个圣徒倒比一个罪人难于监护，这怎么可能呢？"第一个天使答道："竟说我妄加臆测，真是无礼极了！我说的只是真情实况。依我看来，你才是妄加臆测哩！"于是两个天使又吵又斗，起初是用语言吵嘴，接着就用拳头和翅膀武斗了。

他们正在打架的时候，有个天使长走过。他阻止他们打架，说道："你们为什么打架？究竟是为了什么缘故？你们可知道，监护天使在城门口打架是最不像话的？告诉我，你们不和睦的原因何在？"于是两个天使立刻说起话来，谁都声称指派给他做的工作是更辛苦的，因此他应该得到更大的赏识。

天使长摇摇头，自己细细思考。

然后他说道："我的朋友们，我现在没法儿说你们哪一位有更大的权利要求光荣和奖励。

但是，既然授与我权力，既然你们每一位都坚持对方的任务比自己的任务轻而易举，那么，为了和平的缘故，为了良好的监护职责，我派你们两位都担当起对方的职务。现在你们走吧，祝你们工作胜任愉快。"

两个天使奉命而去。但每个天使都怀着更大的愤怒回头看望天使长。每个天使的心里都在想："这个天使长啊！他们使我们天使的生活一天比一天难过！"但天使长站定在那儿，自己再一次的思考。他在心里说道："我们确实非警惕不可，非监督我们的监护天使不可了。"

the two guardian angels

on an evening two angels met at the city gate, and they greeted one another, and they conversed. 

the one angel said, "what are you doing these days, and what work is given you?" 

and the other answered, "it was been assigned me to be the guardian of a fallen man who lives down in the valley, a great sinner, most degraded. let me assure you it is an important task, and i work hard." 

the first fallen angel said, "that is an easy commission. i have often known sinners, and have been their guardian many a time. but it has now been assigned me to be the guardian of the good saint who lives in a bower out yonder. and i assure you that is an exceedingly difficult work, and most subtle." 

said the first angel, "this is but assumption. how can guarding a saint be harder than guarding a sinner?" 

and the other answered, "what impertinence, to call me assumptious! i have stated but the truth. methinks it is you who are assumptious!" 

then the angels wrangled and fought, first with words and then with fists and wings. 

while they were fighting an archangel came by. and he stopped them, and said, "why do you fight? and what is it all about? know you not that it is most unbecoming for guardian angels to fight at the city gate? tell me, what is your disagreement?" 

then both angels spoke at once, each claiming that the work given him was the harder, and that he deserved the greater recognition. 

the archangel shook his head and bethought him. 

then he said, "my friends, i cannot say now which one of you has the greater claim upon honour and reward. but since the power is bestowed in me, therefore for peace sake and for good guardianship, i give each of you the others occupation, since each of you insists that the others task is the easier one. now go hence and be happy at your work." 

the angels thus ordered went their ways. but each one looked backward with greater anger at the archangel. and in his heart each was saying, "oh, these archangels! every day they make life harder and still harder for us angels!" 

but the archangel stood there, and once more he bethought him. and he said in his heart, "we have indeed, to be watchful and to keep guard over our guardian angels." 

wwＷ．xiaＯshuo txt.com



纪伯伦散文-流浪者雕像

小?说?txt?天堂
雕像

从前，有个人住在丛山之间，他家有个雕像，是一位古代的大师制作的。雕像脸孔朝下倒在他家的大门口，他根本没有在意。

有个博学的人，从城里出来，经过他的家，看到了这个雕像，他就问这雕像的主人，是否愿意出售。

主人哈哈大笑，说道："请问谁要买这块笨重肮脏的石头？"城里人说道："我愿意出一块银元买它。"

山里人大为吃惊，喜出望外。

雕像放在一头大象的背脊上，运到了城里。过了几个月，那个山里人进城去了，他在大街上行走时，看到一大群人拥在一个铺子门口，有个人在高声喊道："请进来欣赏天下最美丽、最神奇的雕像把。只要花两块银元，就可以瞧瞧艺术大师的这件最了不得的珍品。"

于是这山里人付了两块银元，踏进店里，瞧见了他自己以一块银元的价格售出的那个雕像。 

the statue

once there lived a man among the hills who possessed a statue wrought by an ancient master. it lay at his door face downward and he was not mindful of it. 

one day there passed by his house a man from the city, a man of knowledge, and seeing the statue he inquired of the owner if he would sell it. 

the owner laughed and said, "and pray who would want to buy that dull and dirty stone?" 

the man from the city said, "i will give you this piece of silver for it." 

and the other man was astonished and delighted. 

the statue was removed to the city, upon the back of and elephant. and after many moons the man from the hills visited the city, and as he walked the streets he saw a crowd before a shop, and a man with a loud voice was crying, "come ye in and behold the most beautiful, the most wonderful statue in all the world. only two silver pieces to look upon this most marvellous work of a master." 

thereupon the man from the hills paid two silver pieces and entered the shop to see the statue that he himself had sold for one spice of silver. 

wwＷ。xiaoshuotxt=com



纪伯伦散文-流浪者交换

。小＿说＿txt天堂
交换

从前，一个穷苦的诗人在十字路口遇见了一个富裕的蠢人，他们互相对话。他们所说的一切，只不过是宣泄他们心里的不满。

这时，专司马路的天使经过十字路口，他用手按在这两个人的肩膀上，你瞧，奇迹出现了：这两个人如今交换了他们所拥有的东西。

于是他们分手了。然而，说也奇怪，诗人左瞧右瞧，但见他手里只有活动的干巴巴的砂子；蠢人闭上了眼睛，但觉得他心里只有活动的云彩。

the exchange

once upon a crossroad a poor poet met a rich stupid, and they conversed. and all that they said revealed but their discontent. 

then the angel of the road passed by, and he laid his hand upon the shoulder of the two men. 

and behold, a miracle: the two men had now exchanged their possessions. 

and they parted. but strange to relate, the poet looked and found naught in his hand but dry moving sand; and the stupid closed his eyes and felt naught but moving cloud in his heart. 

www.xiaoshuotxt.com



爱与恨

。小%说^t*xt-天.堂
爱与恨

一个妇人对一个男人说道："我爱你。"那男人答道："那值得你爱的，是在我的心里。"

于是那妇人问："难道你不爱我吗？"那男人只是凝视着她，默默无言。

于是那妇人大声嚷道：我恨你。"那男人便回答道："那值得你恨的，倒也是在我的心里。"

love and hate

a woman said unto a man, "i love you." and the man said, "it is in my heart to be worthy of your love." 

ant he woman said, "you love me not?" 

and the man only gazed upon her and said nothing. 

then the woman cried aloud, "i hate you." 

and the man said, "then it is also in my heart to be worthy of your hate."

www.xiaoshuotＸt，coＭ



纪伯伦散文-流浪者梦

小,说t,x\t,天,堂
梦

有个人做了个梦，他醒来后便去请教他的预言家，要求他解释清楚这梦预兆什么。

预言家便对这人说道："你带着你清醒时看到的梦境来问我，我一定把梦境的意义告诉你。然而，你睡熟时做的梦，却既不属于我的智力的范围，又不属于你的想像力的范围。

dreams

a man dreamed a dream, and when he awoke he went to his soothsayer and desired that his dream be made plain unto him. 

and the soothsayer said to the man, "come to me with the dreams that you behold in your wakefulness and i will tell you their meaning. but the dreams of your sleep belong neither to my wisdom nor to your imagination."

www/xiaoshuotxt/c o m



纪伯伦散文-流浪者疯子

小说txt天堂
疯子

我在疯人院的花园里遇到了一个青年，脸容苍白、秀丽，可又充满诧异的神色。

我坐在长凳上他的身边，我开口道："你为什么在这儿？"他惊讶地瞧着我，然后说道："这是个不礼貌的问题，不过我还是要回答你。我的父亲要我成为同他一模一样的人，我叔父也指望我同他一个模样。我的母亲但愿我活像她那大名鼎鼎的父亲。我的姐姐以为她那航海的丈夫是个十全十美的榜样，要我亦步亦趋地学他。我的哥哥认为我应该像他一样当个运动员。

我的老师们亦然如此，要我成为哲学博士，音乐大师和逻辑学家，他们也都是坚决的，每个人都只要我成为他的尊容在镜子里的反映。

"所以我就到这个地方来了。我觉得这儿疯人院倒比较神志清醒。至少，我可以成为我自己。"

于是那青年突然向我转过脸来，问道："可是请你告诉我，难道你也是被教育和善意的忠告赶到疯人院来的吗？"我回答道："不，我是个访问者。"

那青年便说："噢，有的人就住在墙壁那一边的疯人院里，原来你就是其中之一啊。"

the madman 

it was in the garden of a madhouse that i met a youth with a face pale and lovely and full of wonder. and i sat beside him upon the bench, and i said, "why are you here?" 

and he looked at me in astonishment, and he said, "it is an unseemly question, yet i will answer you. my father would make of me a reproduction of himself; so also would my uncle. my mother would have me the image of her seafaring husband as the perfect example for me to follow. my brother thinks i should be like him, a fine athlete. 

"and my teachers also, the doctor of philosophy, and the music-master, and the logician, they too were determined, and each would have me but a reflection of his own face in a mirror. 

"therefore i came to this place. i find it more sane here. at least, i can be myself." 

then of a sudden he turned to me and he said, "but tell me, were you also driven to this place by education and good counsel?" 

and i answered, "no, i am a visitor." 

and he answered, "oh, you are one of those who live in the madhouse on the other side of the wall." 

www.xiaoshuotxt.com



法律和立法

（小／／说／／t／／xt｜//天//堂）
法律和立法

几百年前，有个伟大的国王，他是个贤明的人。他要给他的子民制订法律。

他从一千个不同的部落，邀请一千个贤人，到他的京城来制订法律。

这一切都照办了。

然而，写在羊皮纸上的一千条法律，呈送到国王面前，国王——一审阅之时，内心深处倒辛酸地哭泣了，因为他不曾料到，在他的王国之内，竟有一千种犯罪的勾当。

于是国王召来他的书吏，嘴角边带着微笑亲自口授法律。国王制订的法律只有七条。

却说那一千个贤人愤愤地离别国王，带着他们自己制订的法律回到他们各自的部落里去了。每个部落都实施它自己的贤人所制订的法律。

因此，他们直至今天都有一千条法律。

这是一个大国，但它有一千个监狱，狱中充满了触犯一千条法律的男男女女。

这确实是一个伟大的国家，然而，这个国家里的人民，乃是一千个立法者和仅仅一个贤明的国王的后裔。

laws and law-giving

ages ago there was a great king, and he was wise. and he desired to lay laws unto his subjects. 

he called upon one thousand wise men of one thousand different tribes to his capitol and lay down the laws. 

and all this came to pass. 

but when the thousand laws written upon parchment were put before the king and he read them, he wept bitterly in his soul, for he had not known that there were one thousand forms of crime in his kingdom. 

then he called his scribe, and with a smile upon his mouth he himself dictated laws. and his laws were but seven. 

and the one thousand wise men left him in anger and returned to their tribes with the laws they had laid down. and every tribe followed the laws of its wise men. 

therefore they have a thousand laws even to our own day. 

it is a great country, but it has one thousand prisons, and the prisons are full of women and men, breakers of a thousand laws. 

it is indeed a great country, but the people thereof are descendants of one thousand law-givers and of only one wise king. 

wwＷ．xiaＯshuo txt.com



昨天、今天和明天

！小＠说＃txt＄天＾堂＆
昨天、今天和明天

我对我的朋友说："你看见她靠在那个男人的手臂上。可她靠在我的手臂上，还不过是昨天的事哩。一我的朋友道："而明天她就要靠在我的手臂上了。"

我说："瞧她紧挨着坐在他的身边。可她紧挨着坐在我的身边，还不过是昨天的事哩。"

我的朋友道："而明天她就要坐在我的身边了。"

我说："瞧，她从他的杯子里喝酒，而昨天她是从我的林子里喝酒的啊。"

我的朋友道："明天她就要喝我杯子里的酒了。"

我接着说道："瞧她怀着深情，以温柔驯服的眼睛，凝望着他哩，昨天她就是这样凝望着我的啊。"

我的朋友道："明天她凝望的人，便将是我了。"

我说："你可听见她凑在他耳朵上低声哼哼爱情之歌吗？可她凑在我的耳朵上低声哼哼这些爱情之歌，还不过是昨天的事啊。"

我的朋友道："明天她就要凑在我的耳朵上哼这些歌了。"

我说："瞧呀，她正在拥抱他哪。可她拥抱我，还不过是昨天的事哩。"

我的朋友道："她明天会拥抱我呢。"

于是我说道："好一个奇怪的妇人。"

然而我的朋友答道："她仿佛生命，为众人所有；她仿佛死亡，征服众人；她仿佛永恒，包罗众人万象。"

yesterday, today and tomorrow

i said to my friend, "you see her leaning upon the arm of that man. it was but yesterday that she leaned thus upon my arm." 

and my friend said, "and tomorrow she will lean upon mine." 

i said, "behold her sitting close at his side. it was but yesterday she sat close beside me." 

and he answered, "tomorrow she will sit beside me." 

i said, "see, she drinks wine from his cup, and yesterday she drank from mine." 

and he said, "tomorrow, from my cup." 

then i said, "see how she gazes at him with love, and with yielding eyes. yesterday she gazed thus upon me." 

and my friend said, "it will be upon me she gazes tomorrow." 

i said, "do you not hear her now murmuring songs of love into his ears? those very songs of love she murmured but yesterday into my ears." 

and my friend said, "and tomorrow she will murmur them in mine." 

i said, "why see, she is embracing him. it was but yesterday that she embraced me." 

and my friend said, "she will embrace me tomorrow." 

then i said, "what a strange woman." 

but he answered, "she is like unto life, possessed by all men; and like death, she conquers all men; and like eternity, she enfolds all men." 

w w w. xiao shuotxt. co m



家和鞋匠

小＿说  txt 天+堂
家和鞋匠

有个哲学家，穿了一双破鞋子，来到一家鞋匠铺里。哲学家对鞋匠说："请补一下我这双鞋子。"

鞋匠道："眼前我正在修补另一个人的鞋子；还有一个人的鞋子补好了，我才能动手补你的鞋。不过把你的鞋留在这儿，今儿就穿这双别人的鞋，明儿你来拿你自己的鞋吧。"

哲学家这就生气了，他说："不是我自己的鞋子，我可不穿。"

鞋匠道："你竟不能把你的脚穿在别人的鞋子里，那末，请问你真正是个哲学家吗？这条街上还有个鞋匠比我更懂得哲学。你去叫他补鞋吧。"

the philosopher and the cobbler

there came to a cobblers shop a philosopher with worn shoes. and the philosopher said to the cobbler, "please mend my shoes." 

and the cobbler said, "i am mending another mans shoes now, and there are still other shoes to patch before i can come to yours. but leave your shoes here, and wear this other pair today, and come tomorrow for your own." 

then the philosopher was indignant, and he said, "i wear no shoes that are not mine own." 

and the cobbler said, "well then, are you in truth a philosopher, and cannot enfold your feet with the shoes of another man? upon this very street there is another cobbler who understands philosophers better than i do. go you to him for mending." 

ww　w　.　xia　oshu　otxt.co　m



造桥者

小,说t,x\t,天,堂
造桥者

阿栖河穿过安提阿城奔流入海，河上建造了一座桥，以便利这城市的两部分之间的交通。

桥是用大石头筑成的，大石头是驮在安提阿的骡子的背上从山里运来的。

石桥竣工时，一根石柱上用希腊文和阿拉姆文刻了一行字："此桥系国王安提阿二世所建"。

所有的老百姓都经由这座美好的石桥走到美丽的阿栖河对岸去。

一天晚上，有个被人们认为有点儿傻里傻气的青年，往下爬到那石柱上刻字的地方，用木炭把刻的字涂抹掉，然后在这上面写道："这桥上的石头是骡子从山里驮运来的。你们在桥上来来往往，就是跨在建桥者——也就是安提阿的骡子——的背上。"

老百姓读了那青年写下的话，有的哈哈大笑，有的大为惊异。有的说："啊，明白了，我们知道这是谁干的。他不是有点儿傻里傻气吗？"不过，有只骡子一边儿哈哈大笑一边儿对另一只骡子说道："你可记得我们确确实实驮运了这些石头，然而直至今日一直说这石桥是国王安提阿建造的。"

builders of bridges

in antioch where the river assi goes to meet the sea, a bridge was built to bring one half of the city nearer to the other half. it was built of large stones carried down from among the hills, on the backs of the mules of antioch. 

when the bridge was finished, upon a pillar thereof was engraved in greek and in aramaic, "this bridge was builded by king antiochus ii." 

and all the people walked across the good bridge over the goodly river assi. 

and upon an evening, a youth, deemed by some a little mad, descended to the pillar where the words were engraven, and he covered over the graving with charcoal, and above it wrote, "the stones of this bridge were brought down from the hills by the mules. in passing to and fro over it you are riding upon the backs of the mules of antioch, builders of this bridge." 

and when the people read what the youth had written, some of them laughed and some marvelled. and some said, "ah yes, we know who has done this. is he not a little mad?" 

but one mule said, laughing, to another mule, "do you not remember that we did carry those stones? and yet until now it has been said that the bridge was builded by king antiochus."

www.xiaoshuotxt.com



泽德田野

小%说^t*xt-天.堂!
泽德田野

一个旅行者在泽德的大路上，遇到一个住在附近村子里的人，旅行者用手指点着一大片田野，问那人道："这可是国王阿赫兰姆打败敌人的古战场？"那人答道："这儿从来没有做过战场。这片田野里一度耸立着伟大的扎德城，这座城市已烧成灰烬了。不过，它现在是一片沃野，可不是吗？"旅行者和那人便分别了。

旅行者走了不到半英里，又遇到一个人，旅行者又指点着田野问道："这就是伟大的泽德城一度耸立的地方？"那人答道："这个地方从来不曾有过城市。不过这儿倒有过一个修道院，南国的老百姓把它毁了。"

不久，就在这条扎德的大路上，旅行者又遇到了第三个人，他再一次指点着大片田野，问道："这儿果真是一度矗立着一个大修道院的地方吗？"可是那人答道："这一带从来不曾有过修道院，不过，我们的父辈和我们的老祖宗们倒告诉过我们，曾经有一颗大流星掉在这片田野里。"

旅行者心中诧异，继续向前走去。他遇见一个很老的老人，便施礼问道："阁下，我在这条大路上遇到三个住在附近一带的人，我向每个人都打听过这片田野的情况，每个人都否认了别人所说的话，每个人都讲了一个别人没讲过的新的传说。"

于是老人抬起头来，回答道："我的朋友，这些人中，每个人告诉你的都是确实如此的情况，但我们几乎没有人能把分歧的论据加到一起从中得出正确的结论来的。"

the field of zaad

upon the road of zaad a traveller met a man who lived in a nearby village, and the traveller, pointing with his hand to a vast field, asked the man saying, "was not this the battle-ground where king ahlam overcame his enemies?" 

and the man answered and said, "this has never been a battle-ground. there once stood on this field the great city of zaad, and it was burnt down to ashes. but now it is a good field, is it not?" 

and the traveller and the man parted. 

not a half mile farther the traveller met another man, and pointing to the field again, he said, "so that is where the great city of zaad once stood? 

and the man said, "there has never been a city in this place. but once there was a monastery here, and it was destroyed by the people of the south country." 

shortly after, on that very road of zaad, the traveller met a third man, and pointing once more to the vast field he said, "is it not true that this is the place where once there stood a great monastery?" 

but the man answered, "there has never been a monastery in this neighbourhood, but our fathers and our forefathers have told us that once there fell a great meteor on this field." 

then the traveller walked on, wondering in his heart. and he met a very old man, and saluting his he said, "sir, upon this road i have met three men who live in the neighbourhood and i have asked each of them about this field, and each one denied what the other had said, and each one told me a new tale that the other had not told." 

then the old man raised his head, and answered, "my friend, each and every one of these men told you what was indeed so; but few of us are able to add fact to different fact and make a truth thereof." 

wＷ w.xia oshuotxＴ.Ｃom



黄金腰带

小./说。txt天堂
黄金腰带

从前，有一天，有两个在大路上遇见的人，结伴向科伦斯的萨拉密斯城走去。中午时分，他们来到一条宽阔的大河边，可没有渡河的桥。他们非游泳不可；不然就是另找一条路径，可他们又不认识路。

他们互相商量："让我们游过去吧。说到底，这河面也不算太宽。"于是他们便投身水中，游起来了。

两人中有一个生平熟悉江湖，也识得水性，他到了那大河中流倒迷糊了，被汹涌的流水卷走了；另一个从来没有游过泳的人竟笔直地渡过了河，站在那一边的岸上了。他看到自己的同伴还在河里挣扎，就重新跳到水里，把那人也安全地带到了岸上。

于是那曾被激流卷走的人问道："可你告诉过我，你不会游泳。那末，你又怎么这样大胆地游过河的呢？"第二个人答道："我的朋友，你可曾看见我围在身上的这条腰带？腰带里装满了金币，那是我足足干了一年的活儿，为我的妻子和儿女挣来的。推动我渡过河、到我的妻子和儿女身边去的，就是那腰带里的金币的份量。我游泳的时候，我的妻子和儿女都在我的肩膀上。"

于是那两个人继续结伴同行，向萨拉密斯走去。

the golden belt

once upon a day two men who met on the road were walking together toward salamis, the city of columns. in the mid-afternoon they came to a wide river and there was no bridge to cross it. they must needs swim, or seek another road unknown to them. 

and they said to one another, "let us swim. after all, the river is not so wide." and they threw themselves into the water and swam. 

and one of the men who had always known rivers and the ways of rivers, in mid-stream suddenly began to lose himself; and to be carried away by the rushing waters; while the other who had never swum before crossed the river straight-way and stood upon the farther bank. then seeing his companion still wrestling with the stream, he threw himself again into the waters and brought him also safely to the shore. 

and the man who had been swept away by the current said, "but you told me you could not swim. how then did you cross that river with such assurance?" 

and the second man answered, "my friend, do you see this belt which girdles me? it is full of golden coins that i have earned for my wife and my children, a full years work. it is the weight of this belt of gold that carried me across the river, to my wife and my children. and my wife and my children were upon my shoulders as i swam." 

and the two men walked on together toward salamis. 

wＷw。xiaoshuo txt.coＭ



红色大地

小*说**t*xt**天*堂
红色大地

一棵树对一个人说："我的根深入红色大地，我要把我的果实送给你。"

那个人对那棵树说道："咱俩多么相似。我的根也深人红色大地。红色大地赋予你力量赠我以果实，红色大地教育我以感谢之忱接受你的馈赠。"

the red earth

said a tree to a man, "my roots are in the deep red earth, and i shall give you of my fruit." 

and the man said to the tree, "how alike we are. my roots are also deep in the red earth. and the red earth gives you power to bestow upon me of your fruit, and the red earth teaches me to receive from you with thanksgiving."

w w w.x iaoshu otx t.c o m



纪伯伦散文-流浪者圆月

小,说t,xt,天,堂
圆月

圆月光华灿烂地在城镇上空升起来了，城镇里所有的狗儿都开始吠叫起来了。

只有一只狗不吠不叫，它用庄严的声调对其余的狗儿说道："别吵得寂静从睡眠中醒来，也别用你们的吠声把月亮唤到大地上来。"

于是所有的狗儿都肃静无声，停止吠叫了。但，那只叫大家不要吠叫的狗儿，却因寂静而彻夜吠叫。

the full moon

the full moon rose in glory upon the town, and all the dogs of that town began to bark at the moon. 

only one dog did not bark, and he said to them in a grave voice, "awake not stillness from her sleep, nor bring you the moon to the earth with your barking." 

then all the dogs ceased barking, in awful silence. but the dog who had spoken to them continued barking for silence, the rest of the night. 

w w w/xiao shu otx t.com



隐居的先知

小 说 t xt 天 堂
隐居的先知

从前有个隐居的先知，他每个月到大城市里去三次，在市场上宣讲施舍以及与人分享之道。他讲话滔滔不绝，闻名于世。

一天黄昏，有三个人来到他隐居的地方，他施礼迎接。他们说："你曾宣讲施舍以及与人分享之道，你曾设法教育富有的人施舍给贫穷的人；我们深信不疑，你的名声已经给你带来财富。

如今你就把你的财富施舍给我们吧，因为我们十分贫困。"

隐士答道："我的朋友们，我除了这张床，这条席子和这瓶水外，一无所有。如果你们想要的话，就把它们拿走好了。我既无金子，又无银子。"

于是他们都轻蔑地鄙视隐士，把脸儿都转过去了；最后的那个人在门口站立片刻，说道："啊，你这骗子！你这满口欺人之谈的家伙！你教导和宣讲的，你自己并不身体力行。"

the hermit prophet

once there lived a hermit prophet, and thrice a moon he would go down to the great city and in the market places he would preach giving and sharing to the people. and he was eloquent, and his fame was upon the land. 

upon an evening three men came to his hermitage and he greeted them. and they said, "you have been preaching giving and sharing, and you have sought to teach those who have much to give unto those who have little; and we doubt not that your fame has brought you riches. now come and give us of your riches, for we are in need." 

and the hermit answered and said, "my friends, i have naught but this bed and this mat and this jug of water. take them if it is in your desire. i have neither gold nor silver." 

then they looked down with distain upon him, and turned their faces from him, and the last man stood at the door for a moment, and said, "oh, you cheat! you fraud! you teach and preach that which you yourself do not perform." 

Ｗww.xiaoshＵotxt.cＯm



纪伯伦散文-流浪者陈酒

～小  说t  xt 天,堂
陈酒

从前，有个富翁，不无理由地以他的酒窖和窖藏美酒自豪。其中有一瓶远年陈葡萄酒，是他珍藏着留作盛会用的，究竟是什么盛会，可只有他自己知道。

地方官来拜访他，他心中寻思道："不过是地方官罢了，不必为他开这瓶酒。"

教区的主教来拜访他，可他跟自己说道："不，我不愿为他开这瓶酒。他不会懂得这酒的价值，这酒的香味地也闻不出来。"

王国的王子来临，和他一同进餐。但是他想："他不过是个小小的王子，不配喝那么高贵的美酒。"

甚至在他自己的侄儿结婚的时候，他也对自己说道："不，那瓶酒可不拿出来给那些客人们喝。"

岁月流逝，这老头儿终于死了，埋了，像种子和橡实一样。

他下葬的那天，那瓶远年陈葡萄酒和其它的酒都拿出来了，被农民和邻居们分着喝掉了。

没有一个人辨别出这瓶酒是远年陈酒。

对他们说来，凡是倒进酒杯里的，都不过是酒罢了。

the old, old wine

once there lived a rich man who was justly proud of his cellar and the wine therein. and there was one jug of ancient vintage kept for some occasion known only to himself. 

the governor of the state visited him, and he bethought him and said, "that jug shall not be opened for a mere governor." 

and a bishop of the diocese visited him, but he said to himself, "nay, i will not open that jug. he would not know its value, nor would its aroma reach his nostrils." 

the prince of the realm came and supped with him. but he thought, "it is too royal a wine for a mere princeling." 

and even on the day when his own nephew was married, he said to himself, "no, not to these guests shall that jug be brought forth." 

and the years passed by, and he died, an old man, and he was buried like unto every seed and acorn. 

and upon the day that he was buried the ancient jug was brought out together with other jugs of wine, and it was shared by the peasants of the neighbourhood. and none knew its great age. 

to them, all that is poured into a cup is only wine. 

ＷＷw.xiＡosＨuotxt.ＣＯＭ



纪伯伦散文-流浪者群蛙

～小＜说t xt＋＋天＞堂
群蛙

盛夏之日，一只青蛙同他的伴侣说道："我担心我们的夜歌打搅了住在岸上房子里的人们。"

他的伴侣答道："哎呀，难道他们白天的谈话没有打扰了我们的寂静吗？"雄蛙说："让我们别忘了，也许我们在夜间唱得太多哩。"

他的伴侣道："让我们也别忘了，他们在白天闲谈叫嚷得太过分啊。"

雄蛙说："牛蛙用他那上帝禁止的轰鸣吵醒了整个街坊，你觉得如何呢？"他的伴侣答道："哎，政治家、牧师和科学家都来到岸边，使空气里充满了喧闹而又毫无韵律的声音，你又怎么说呢？"于是雄蛙提议："哦，让我们比人类高明些吧。让我们在夜里保持沉默，把我们的歌儿藏在我们的心里，尽管月亮需要我们的节奏，繁星需要我们的韵律，都在发出呼吁呢。至少，让我们沉默一二夜，或者甚至三夜吧。"

他的伴侣道："很好，我同意。我们拭目以待你那宽容的心带来的后果。"

那天夜里，群蛙默不作声，第二夜他们也没有作声，而第三夜又是默不作声。

说也奇怪，住在湖边房子里的一个爱说话的妇人，第三天下楼来吃早餐时，大声对她的丈夫说道："这三夜我都没有睡成。耳中听到蛙声时，我才睡得安安稳稳。不过，必定是出了什么事了。青蛙三夜没有唱歌了；我失眠缺觉得几乎要发疯了。"

雄蛙听到了这一席话，向他的伴侣转过身来，眨巴着眼睛，说道："我们因为默不作声也几乎要发疯了，难道不是吗？"他的伴侣答道："是的，夜的寂静沉重地笼罩着我们。我现在明白了，我们毋须为这些人的安宁舒适而停止唱歌，他们非有喧闹的声音来充实他们的空虚不可。"

那天夜里，月亮就不是白白的为青蛙的节奏而呼吁了，繁星就不是白白的为青蛙的韵律而呼吁了。

the frogs 

upon a summer day a frog said to his mate, "i fear those people living in that house on the shore are disturbed by our night-songs." 

and his mate answered and said, "well, do they not annoy our silence during the day with their talking?" 

the frog said, "let us not forget that we may sing too much in the night." 

and his mate answered, "let us not forget that they chatter and shout overmuch during the day." 

said the frog, "how about the bullfrog who that they clatter and shout overmuch during the day." 

said the frog, "how about the bullfrog who disturbs the whole neighbourhood with his god-forbidden booming?" 

and his mate replied, "aye, and what say you of the politician and the priest and the scientist who come to these shores and fill the air with noisy and rhymeless sound?" 

then the frog said, "well, let us be better than these human beings. let us be quiet at night, and keep our songs in our hearts, even though the moon calls for our rhythm and the stars for our rhyme. at least, let us be silent for a night or two, or even for three nights." 

and his mate said, "very well, i agree. we shall see what your bountiful heart will bring forth." 

that night the frogs were silent; and they were silent the following night also, and again upon the third night. 

and strange to relate, the talkative woman who lived in the house beside the lake came down to breakfast on that third day and shouted to her husband, "i have not slept these three nights. i was secure with sleep when the noise of the frogs was in my ear. but something must have happened. they have not sung now for three nights; and i am almost maddened with sleeplessness." 

the frog heard this and turned to his mate and said, winking his eye, "and we were almost maddened with our silence, were we not?" 

and his mate answered, "yes, the silence of the night was heavy upon us. and i can see now that there is no need for us to cease our singing for the comfort of those who must needs fill their emptiness with noise." 

and that night the moon called not in vain for their rhythm nor the stars for their rhyme.

upon a summer day a frog said to his mate, "i fear those people living in that house on the shore are disturbed by our night-songs." 

and his mate answered and said, "well, do they not annoy our silence during the day with their talking?" 

the frog said, "let us not forget that we may sing too much in the night." 

and his mate answered, "let us not forget that they chatter and shout overmuch during the day." 

said the frog, "how about the bullfrog who that they clatter and shout overmuch during the day." 

said the frog, "how about the bullfrog who disturbs the whole neighbourhood with his god-forbidden booming?" 

and his mate replied, "aye, and what say you of the politician and the priest and the scientist who come to these shores and fill the air with noisy and rhymeless sound?" 

then the frog said, "well, let us be better than these human beings. let us be quiet at night, and keep our songs in our hearts, even though the moon calls for our rhythm and the stars for our rhyme. at least, let us be silent for a night or two, or even for three nights." 

and his mate said, "very well, i agree. we shall see what your bountiful heart will bring forth." 

that night the frogs were silent; and they were silent the following night also, and again upon the third night. 

and strange to relate, the talkative woman who lived in the house beside the lake came down to breakfast on that third day and shouted to her husband, "i have not slept these three nights. i was secure with sleep when the noise of the frogs was in my ear. but something must have happened. they have not sung now for three nights; and i am almost maddened with sleeplessness." 

the frog heard this and turned to his mate and said, winking his eye, "and we were almost maddened with our silence, were we not?" 

and his mate answered, "yes, the silence of the night was heavy upon us. and i can see now that there is no need for us to cease our singing for the comfort of those who must needs fill their emptiness with noise." 

and that night the moon called not in vain for their rhythm nor the stars for their rhyme.

www。xiaoshuotxt。com



两首诗

小.说。t。xt-天/堂
两首诗

许多世纪以前，有两个诗人在到雅典去的大路上相遇，彼此见面，很是高兴。

一个诗人间另一个诗人道："你最近在写什么？你的七弦竖琴如何配乐？"另一个诗人自豪地回答道："我刚写完我的最伟大的诗篇，也许是迄今用希腊文写的最伟大的诗篇。这是一首向至高无上的宙斯神祈祷的诗篇。"

于是他从斗篷下取出一卷羊皮纸，说道："哎，你瞧，我把诗稿带来了，我很高兴读给你听。来吧，让我们坐到那棵白扁柏的树荫下去。"

诗人便朗读他的诗。那是一首长诗。

另一个诗人友好地说道："这是一首伟大的诗篇。这诗将世代相传，你将因此扬名千古。"

第一个诗人平静地问道："那末你在最近的日子里写了些什么呢？"另一个诗人答道："我写得很少。只写了八行诗，纪念一个在花园里玩耍的孩子的。"接着他就背诵了那八行诗。

第一个诗人说："不赖，不赖。"

于是他们就分手了。

如今二千多年过去了，那八行诗仍在每个人的嘴里吟咏，大家喜爱它珍惜它。

那首长诗虽然也确实世世代代在图书馆里、在学者的藏书楼里传下来了；虽然记得这首诗，却既没有人爱它，又没有人读它。

the two poems

many centuries ago, on a road to athens, two poets met, and they were glad to see one another. 

and one poet asked the other saying, "what have you composed of late, and how goes it with your lyre?" 

and the other poet answered and said with pride, "i have but now finished the greatest of my poems, perchance the greatest poem yet written in greek. it is an invocation to zeus the supreme." 

then he took from beneath his cloak a parchment, saying, "here, behold, i have it with me, and i would fain read it to you. come, let us sit in the shade of that white cypress." 

and the poet read his poem. and it was a long poem. 

and the other poet said in kindliness, "this is a great poem. it will live through the ages, and in it you shall be glorified." 

and the first poet said calmly, "and what have you been writing these late days?" 

and the other another, "i have written but little. only eight lines in remembrance of a child playing in a garden." and he recited the lines. 

the first poet said, "not so bad; not so bad." 

and they parted. 

and now after two thousand years the eight lines of the one poet are read in every tongue, and are loved and cherished. 

and though the other poem has indeed come down through the ages in libraries and in the cells of scholars, and though it is remembered, it is neither loved nor read. 

www/xiaoshuotxt/c o m



鲁思夫人

小说-txt天堂
鲁思夫人

从前，有三个人遥望一所白房子，那白房子孤零零地坐落在一座绿色山头上。第一个人说："那是鲁思夫人的房子，她是个老丑巫婆。"

第二个人说："你错了。鲁思夫人是个美丽妇女，她住在那儿沉而于梦幻之中。"

第三个人说："你们俩都错了。鲁思夫人是这一大片土地的大地主，她吸她的农奴们的血。"

他们且走且议论着鲁思夫人。

他们走到十字路口时，遇见一个老翁，有一个人问老翁道："请你把那位住在山头上白房子里的鲁思夫人的情况告诉我们好吗？"老翁抬起头来，向他们微笑，然后说道："我现在九十岁了；我记得鲁思夫人时，还不过是个孩子哩。不过，鲁思夫人八十年前早就死掉了，如今那所白房子是空关着的。鸱枭有时在那里呜呜地号叫，人家说，那所房子里闹鬼。

lady ruth

three men once looked from afar upon a white house that stood alone on a green hill. one of them said, "that is the house of lady ruth. she is an old witch." 

the second man said, "you are wrong. lady ruth is a beautiful woman who lives there consecrated unto her dreams." 

the third man said, "you are both wrong. lady ruth is the holder of this vast land, and she draws blood from her serfs." 

and they walked on discussing lady ruth. then when they came to a crossroad they met an old man, and one of them asked him, saying, "would you please tell us about the lady ruth who lives in that white house upon the hill?" 

and the old man raised his head and smiled upon them, and said, "i am ninety of years, and i remember lady ruth when i was but a boy. but lady ruth died eighty years ago, and now the house is empty. the owls hoot therein, sometimes, and people say the place is haunted." 

w w w.x iaoshu otx t.c o m



老鼠和猫

《小说t》xt天堂
老鼠和猫

一天黄昏，一个诗人遇到了一个农民。诗人是孤僻的，农民是见人腼腆的，然而他们谈起话来了。

农民说："让我把一个最近听到的小故事讲给你听吧。一只老鼠给逮在捕鼠笼里了；老鼠快乐地吃着摆在笼子里的干酪时，有一只猫在笼子旁边。老鼠颤抖了一会儿，不过它心里明白，身在笼子里，它是安全的。

"于是猫开口道：我的朋友，你正在吃你最后的一餐啊。"，是的，老鼠答道：我只有一条命，因此只死一次。可你又如何呢？据说你有九条命。

难道这不是意味着你必须死九次吗？"农民瞧瞧诗人，说："这岂不是个新奇的故事吗？"诗人没有回答农民，他走了开去，心灵里却在寻思："千真万确，我们有九条命，确确实实是九条命。因而我们要死九次，确实要死九次。也许，还不如只有一条命，给逮在一只笼子里一一一过着一个农民的生活，只有一小片干酪作他的最后一餐。然而，难道我们不是沙漠和林莽里的狮子的亲戚吗？"

the mouse and the cat

once on an evening a poet met a peasant. the poet was distant and the peasant was shy, yet they conversed. 

and the peasant said, "let me tell you a little story which i heard of late. a mouse was caught in a trap, and while he was happily eating the cheese that lay therein, a cat stood by. the mouse trembled awhile, but he knew he was safe within the trap. 

"then the cat said, you are eating your last meal, my friend. 

"yes, answered the mouse, one life have i, therefore one death. but what of you? they tell me you have nine lives. doesnt that mean that you will have to die nine times?" 

and the peasant looked at the poet and he said, "is not this a strange story?" 

and the poet answered him not, but he walked away saying in his soul, "to be sure, nine lives have we, nine lives to be sure. and we shall die nine times, nine times shall we die. perhaps it were better to have but one life, caught in a trap -- the life of a peasant with a bit of cheese for the last meal. and yet, are we not kin unto the lions of the desert and the jungle?" 

www.xiＡoshuotxＴ.cＯＭ



纪伯伦散文-流浪者诅咒

小.说.t.xt.天.堂
诅咒

有一次，一个海上老人对我说道："三十年以前，有个水手带着我的女儿逃跑了。我从心底里诅咒他们两人，因为世界上我最疼爱的仅仅是我的女儿。

"不久以后，那青年水手和他的船都沉到海底里去了，我也就丧失了同他在一起的、我那可爱的女儿。

"因此，现在你在我身上瞧得见一个谋杀这对青年和少女的凶手。毁灭他们两人的，就是我的诅咒。如今我在走向坟墓的路上寻求上帝的宽恕。"

老人说了这番话。然而在他的说话里有一种自吹自擂的口吻，仿佛他仍旧以他那诅咒的魔力自豪哩。

the curse

and old man of the sea once said to me, "it was thirty years ago that a sailor ran away with my daughter. and i cursed them both in my heart, for of all the world i loved but my daughter. 

"not long after that, the sailor youth went down with his ship to the bottom of the sea, and with him my lovely daughter was lost unto me. 

"now therefore behold in me the murderer of a youth and a maid. it was my curse that destroyed them. and now on my way to the grave i seek gods forgiveness." 

this the old man said. but there was a tone of bragging in his words, and it seems that he is still proud of the power of his curse. 

wＷw：xiaoshuotxt？com



纪伯伦散文-流浪者石榴

小$说$t@xt`天"堂
石榴

从前有一个人，他的果园里种了许多石榴树。有好几个秋天，他总是把石榴盛在他的住宅外边儿的几个银盘里，盘上还放了一块他亲手写的招牌："务请取用一个。不胜欢迎。"

然而，来往经过的人们，竟没有一个人取用那果实。

这人左思右想，于是在某～年秋天，他就不把石榴盛在住宅外的银盘里了，却高悬着用大字写的招牌："此间备有人世最佳石榴，但其售价较任何其他石榴昂贵。"

瞧瞧吧，附近的男男女女都跑来抢购石榴了。

the pomegranates

there was once a man who had many pomegranate trees in his orchard. and for many an autumn he would put his pomegranates on silvery trays outside of his dwelling, and upon the trays he would place signs upon which he himself had written, "take one for aught. you are welcome." 

but people passed by and no one took of the fruit. 

then the man bethought him, and one autumn he placed no pomegranates on silvery trays outside of his dwelling, but he raised this sign in large lettering: "here we have the best pomegranates in the land, but we sell them for more silver than any other pomegranates." 

and now behold, all the men and women of the neighbourhood came rushing to buy. 

ww　w.xＩaoshuotxt.。com



一神与多种基拉

小;说，t，xt，天'堂
一神与多种基拉

菲斯城里，有个诡辩家站在神庙的台阶上宣讲多神教。老百姓在心里说道："这一切我们统统知道。难道众神不是同我们一起生活，我们走到哪儿他们也跟到哪儿吗？"不久以后，另一个人站在市场里，对老百姓讲道："没有神。"许多听他讲话的人，对他传来的信息感到高兴，因为他们惧怕众神。

另一天又来了个口若悬河、能言善辩的人，他说："只有一个神。"于是老百姓都惊惶了，因为在他们心底里，惧怕神的审判甚于众神的审判。

在同一季节里，又来了一个人，他对老百姓说："共有三个神，他们三为一体住在风里，他们有一个庞大而仁慈的母亲，这位母亲也是他们的同伴和姐妹。"

于是人人都安心了，因为他们悄悄地在说："三合一的神必定对我们的缺点意见分歧，而且，他们的仁慈的母亲，一定会为我们这些可怜的意志薄弱者辩护的。"

直至今天，基拉菲斯城里仍旧有些人，还在为了多神或无神，一神或三神会一及其仁慈的母亲互相辩论和争执不休。

god and many gods

in the city of kilafis a sophist stood on the steps of the temple and preached many gods. and the people said in their hearts, "we know all this. do they not live with us and follow us wherever we go?" 

not long after, another man stood in the market place and spoke unto the people and said, "there is no god." and many who heard him were glad of his tidings, for they were afraid of gods. 

and upon another day there came a man of great eloquence, an he said, "there is but one god." and now the people were dismayed for in their hearts they feared the judgment of one god more than that of many gods. 

that same season there came yet another man, and he said to the people, "there are three gods, and they dwell upon the wind as one, and they have a vast and gracious mother who is also their mate and their sister." 

then everyone was comforted, for they said in their secret, "three gods in one must needs disagree over our failings, and besides, their gracious mother will surely be an advocate for us poor weaklings." 

yet even to this day there are those in the city of kilafis who wrangle and argue with each other about many gods and no god, and one god and three gods in one, and a gracious mother of gods. 

w w w. xiao shuotxt. co m



耳聋的女人

小，说，t，xt，天，堂
耳聋的女人

从前，有个富翁，他有个年轻的妻子，她是个一点儿也听不见的石聋子。

一天早晨，他们正吃着早餐的时候，她对她的丈夫说道："昨天我去逛了市场，那儿陈列着大马士革来的绸缎衣裳，印度来的头巾，波斯来的项链，也门来的手银。看来商队刚把这些东西贩运到我们这个城市里来呢。可你瞧瞧我吧，穿得破破烂烂的，还算是富翁的妻子哩。那些美丽的衣饰，我想要买几件。"

丈夫还在忙于喝他那早晨的咖啡，说道："我的亲爱的，没有理由不让你上街买你心爱的一切东西啊。"

那耳聋的妻子接着说道："不！你总是说不，不。难道我必须穿得破破烂烂的出现在我们的朋友面前，给你的财富和我的亲属丢脸吗？"丈夫说："我并没有说不啊，你不妨自由自在地到市场上去，把运到我们城里来的最美丽的衣裳和珠宝买回来。"

然而，妻子又猜错了丈夫的话，她说道："在所有的富翁中间，你是最吝啬的。一切美丽可爱的东西，你总是不肯给我买的；而其他跟我年龄仿佛的女人，都穿得漂漂亮亮的在城中花园里散步。"

她哭起来了。她的泪水落到胸膛上时，她又重新大声说道："我要买件衣服或是买粒宝石时，你总是对我说不，不！"于是丈夫被感动了，他站起身来，从他的钱袋里拿出一把金币放在她的面前，用一种和蔼可亲的声音说道："到市场上去吧，我的亲爱的，把你想买的东西都买回来吧。"

从那一天起，那耳聋的年轻妻子，什么时候想买什么东西，总是珠泪盈眶地出现在丈夫的面前，丈夫总是默默地拿出一把金币来，放在她的衣兜里。

却说机缘凑巧，这年轻女人同一个青年男子恋爱起来了；那青年男子有个外出长途旅行的习惯。每逢他外出旅行时，她往往坐在窗畔哭泣。

她的丈夫看见她这样哭泣时，他往往在心里说道："街上一定又有新的南队来了，街上一定又有绸缎衣裳和稀世珍宝了。"

他往往拿出一把金币，放在她的面前。

she who was deaf

once there lived a rich man who had a young wife, and she was stone deaf. 

and upon a morning when they were breaking their feast, she spoke to him and she said, "yesterday i visited the market place, and there were exhibited silken raiment from damascus, and coverchiefs from india, necklaces from persia, and bracelets from yamman. it seems that the caravans had but just brought these things to our city. and now behold me, in rags, yet the wife of a rich man. i would have some of those beautiful things." 

the husband, still busy with his morning coffee said, "my dear, there is no reason why you should not go down to the street and buy all that your heart may desire." 

and the deaf wife said, "no! you always say, no, no. must i needs appear in tatters among our friends to shame your wealth and my people?" 

and the husband said, "i did not say, no. you may go forth freely to the market place and purchase the most beautiful apparel and jewels that have come to our city." 

but again the wife mis-read his words, and she replied, "of all rich men you are the most miserly. you would deny me everything of beauty and loveliness, while other women of my age walk the gardens of the city clothed in rich raiment." 

and she began to weep. and as her tears fell upon her breast she cried out again, "you always say, nay, nay to me when i desire a garment or a jewel." 

then the husband was moved, and he stood up and took out of his purse a handful of gold and placed it before her, saying in a kindly voice, "go down to the market place, my dear, and buy all that you will." 

from that day onward the deaf young wife, whenever she desired anything, would appear before her husband with a pearly tear in her eye, and he in silence would take out a handful of gold and place it in her lap. 

now, it changed that the young woman fell in love with a youth whose habit it was to make long journeys. and whenever he was away she would sit in her casment and weep. 

when her husband found her thus weeping, he would say in his heart, "there must be some new caravan, and some silken garments and rare jewels in the street." 

and he would take a handful of gold and place it before her. 

wＷw。xiaoshuo txt.coＭ



探索一千年

小.说。t。xt-天/堂
探索一千年

以前，两个哲学家在黎巴嫩的一个山坡上相遇，这～个问那一个道："你上哪儿去？"那一个答道："我正在寻找青春的源泉，我知道这泉水是从这些山岭间喷涌出来的。我曾经读到的文章上说，这泉水向着太阳盛开着花朵哩。你呢，你在寻找着什么？"这一个回答说："我正在寻找死亡的秘密。"

两个哲学家都认为对方对他那伟大的科学知之甚少，他们争论起来了，都指责对方精神上的盲目性。

正当这两个哲学家争论得响遏行云时，有一个陌生人经过。在他自己的村子里，大家都认为他是个傻瓜。他听见哲学家在热烈辩论，便站停了一会儿，听他们论争。

然后他走近哲学家们，说道："先生们，看来你们两位是属于同一个哲学学派的，你们讲的是同一个事物，不过你们用不同的语言讲述罢了。你们两人中有一位寻找青春的源泉，另一位寻找死亡的秘密。事实上，这两者不过是一个事物；而且作为一个事物存在于你们两位的身上。"

于是这陌生人一边儿转过身去，一边儿说道："再见了，哲人们。"他离开时发出了耐心的笑声。

这两位哲学家默默地相视片刻，接着也哈哈大笑了。其中一位说道："好吧，现在咱们是否一起走一起探索？"

the quest

a thousand years ago two philosophers met on a slope of lebanon, and one said to the other, "where goest thou?" 

and the other answered, "i am seeking after the fountain of youth which i know wells out among these hills. i have found writings which tell of that fountain flowering toward the sun. and you, what are you seeking?" 

the first man answered, "i am seeking after the mystery of death." 

then each of the two philosophers conceived that the other was lacking in his great science, and they began to wrangle, and to accuse each other of spiritual blindness. 

now while the two philosophers were loud upon the wind, a stranger, a man who was deemed a simpleton in his own village, passed by, and when he heard the two in hot dispute, he stood awhile and listened to their argument. 

then he came near to them and said, "my good men, it seems that you both really belong to the same school of philosophy, and that you are speaking of the same thing, only you speak in different words. one of you is seeks the fountain of youth, and the other seeks the mystery of death. yet indeed they are but one, and as they dwell in you both." 

then the stranger turned away saying, "farewell sages." and as he departed he laughed a patient laughter. 

the two philosophers looked at each other in silence for a moment, and then they laughed also. and one of them said, "well now, shall we not walk and seek together."

wwＷ、xiaoshuotxt.com



纪伯伦散文-流浪者节杖

小?说?txt?天堂
节杖

国王对他的妻子说："夫人，你并非名符其实的王后。你太庸俗，太粗野，不配做我的伴侣。"

妻子道："先生，你自以为是个国王，然而事实上你不过是一个可怜的传声筒罢了。"这些话触怒了国王，他手执节杖，用那金质节杖打在王后的前额上。

这时候王室侍从长进宫来了，他说道："啊，啊，国王陛下！这节杖是天下最伟大的艺术家制作的。唉，有朝一日，国王和王后行将被忘记了，但这节杖会被保存下来，作为艺术品一代又一代地传下去。陛下，如今你让节杖沾上了王后陛下额上的血，将来它就越发要受到重视和追念了。"

the sceptre

said a king to his wife, "madame, you are not truly a queen. you are too vulgar and ungracious to be my mate." 

said his wife, "sir, you deem yourself king, but indeed you are only a poor soundling." 

now these words angered the king, and he took his sceptre with his hand, and struck the queen upon her forehead with his golden sceptre. 

at that moment the lord chamberlain entered, and he said, "well, well, majesty! that sceptre was fashioned by the greatest artist of the land. alas! some day you and the queen shall be forgotten, but this sceptre shall be kept, a thing of beauty from generation to generation. and now that you have drawn blood from her majestys head, sire, the sceptre shall be the more considered and remembered." 

wwＷ。xiaoshuotxt=com



纪伯伦散文-流浪者小径

小!说!txt!天.堂
小径

丛山里住着一个妇人和她的儿子，他是她的头胎儿子，也是她的独生子。

这孩子死于热病，当时医生束手无策地站在旁边。

母亲苦恼得心慌意乱，她对医生大号大哭，向他恳求道："告诉我，告诉我，究竟是什么使他不再挣扎不再歌唱的呢？"医生说："是热病。"

母亲问："什么是热病？"医生说：我解释不了，这是一种无限小的微生物，它侵入人的肌体，我们的肉眼是看不见的。"

于是医生告辞了。她还是不断地自言自语："无限小的微生物。我们的肉眼是看不见的。"

黄昏时分，教士来安慰她。她哭泣，呼天抢地地说道："啊，为什么我丧失我的儿子，我的头脸儿子，我的独生子户教士说道："我的孩儿啊，这是上帝的意志。"

妇人问："上帝是什么，上帝又在哪儿？我但愿见到上帝，当着上帝的面撕裂我的胸膛，把我心里的血没在上帝的脚边。告诉我吧，我将在什么地方找到上帝。"

教士答道："上帝是无限大的。我们的肉眼是看不见的。"

于是这妇人号哭道："那无限小的，借助于那无限大的意志，杀死了我的儿子！那么，我们是什么？我们是什么？"这时候，妇人的母亲走进房间里来了，她手里拿着给死去的孩子包裹尸体的市。她听到了教士的话，也听到了她的女儿的号哭。她放下手里的裹尸布，把她女儿的手握在她自己的手里，说道："我的女儿啊，我们自己，既是那无限小的，又是那无限大的；我们是微生物和上帝相通的途径。"

the path

there lived among the hills a woman and her son, and he was her first-born and her only child. 

and the boy died of a fever whilst the physician stood by. 

the mother was distraught with sorrow, and she cried to the physician and besought him saying, "tell me, tell me, what was it that made quiet his striving and silent his song?" 

and the physician said, "it was the fever." 

and the mother said, "what is the fever?" 

and the physician answered, "i cannot explain it. it is a thing infinitely small that visits the body, and we cannot see it with the human eye." 

the physician left her. and she kept repeating to herself, "something infinitely small. we cannot see it with our human eye." 

and at evening the priest came to console her. and she wept and she cried out saying, "oh, why have i lost my son, my only son, my first-born?" 

and the priest answered, "my child, it is the will of god." 

and the woman said, "what is god and where is god? i would see god that i may tear my bosom before him, and pour the blood of my heart at his feet. tell me where i shall find him." 

and the priest said, ""god is infinitely vast. he is not to be seen with our human eye." 

then the woman cried out, "the infinitely small has slain my son through the will of the infinitely great! then what are we? what are we?" 

at that moment the womans mother came into the room with the shroud for the dead boy, and she heard the words of the priest and also her daughters cry. and she laid down the shroud, and took her daughters hand in her own hand, and she said, "my daughter, we ourselves are the infinitely small and the infinitely great; and we are the path between the two." 

www-xiaoshuotxt-c o m



鲸鱼与蝴蝶

小,说t,xt,天,堂
鲸鱼与蝴蝶

一天黄昏，一个男子和一个妇女不期而遇地同坐一辆驿站马车旅行。他们以前见过面。

那男子是个诗人，他坐在那妇女的身边，设法讲故事给她消遣，有的故事是他自己创作的，有的可不是。

然而，就在他讲着故事的时候，那位夫人竟睡着了。接着，马车突然晃荡，那位夫人醒了，她说："我真欣赏你所描摹的约拿和鲸鱼的故事。"

诗人接口道："然而，夫人，我刚才在讲给你听的故事是我自己创作的，说的是一只蝴蝶和一朵白玫瑰花，以及它们怎样的彼此以礼相待。"

the whale and the butterfly

once on an evening a man and a woman found themselves together in a stagecoach. they had met before. 

the man was a poet, and as he sat beside the woman he sought to amuse her with stories, some that were of his own weaving, and some that were not his own. 

but even while he was speaking the lady went to sleep. then suddenly the coach lurched, and she awoke, and she said, "i admire your interpretation of the story of jonah and the whale." 

and the poet said, "but madame, i have been telling you a story of mine own about a butterfly and a white rose, and how they behaved the one to the other!"

w w w.x iaoshu otx t.c o m



和平感染

小,说t,x\t,天,堂
和平感染

一枝开花的树枝同它邻近的丫枝说："这是沉闷而空虚的一天。"那邻近的丫枝答道："这日子确实是空虚而又沉闷。"

此刻有一只麻雀躲到一枝丫枝上来了，接着又有一只躲到邻近的一枝上。

有一只麻雀叽叽喳喳地说："我的伴侣离开我了。"

另一只麻雀大声叫道："我的伴侣也走了，她不会回来了。我才不在乎哩！"这两只麻雀开始啁啾对话和互相对骂，不久它们就打起架来，在空中发出刺耳的声音。

突然，又有两只麻雀从天空中滑翔而下，它们悄悄地坐在这两只不安分的麻雀身旁。于是就有了安宁，有了和平。

这四只麻雀成双捉对地一起飞走了。

于是开花树枝对它邻近丫枝说："那是声音的一番大转折。"邻近的丫技答道："你愿意管它叫什么就叫它什么吧，如今倒是和平而又宽敞了。在我看来，如果在上空的和平相处，那末，住在下界的就也会和平相处了。你可愿意在风中摇曳得稍稍靠拢我一点儿吗？"开花的树枝说："啊，为了和平的缘故，在春天逝去之前，也许可能的吧。"

于是它乘着强劲的春风正摇曳它自身，便拥抱那邻近的丫技。

peace contagious

one branch in bloom said to his neighbouring branch, "this is a dull and empty day." and the other branch answered, "it is indeed empty and dull." 

at that moment a sparrow alighted on one of the branches, and the another sparrow, nearby. 

and one of the sparrows chirped and said, "my mate has left me." 

and the other sparrow cried, "my mate has also gone, and she will not return. and what care i?" 

then the two birds began to twitter and scold, and soon they were fighting and making harsh noise upon the air. 

all of a sudden two other sparrows came sailing from the sky, and they sat quietly beside the restless two. and there was calm, and there was peace. 

then the four flew away together in pairs. 

and the first branch said to his neighbouring branch, "that was a mighty zig-zag of sound." 

and the other branch answered, "call it what you will, it is now both peaceful and spacious. and if the upper air makes peace it seems to me that those who dwell in the lower might make peace also. will you not wave in the wind a little nearer to me?" 

and the first branch said, "oh, perchance, for peace sake, ere the spring is over." 

and then he waved himself with the strong wind to embrace her. 

www.xiaoshuotＸt，coＭ



纪伯伦散文-流浪者影子

小*说**t*xt**天*堂
影子

六月里的一天，青草对榆树的影子说："你左右摇晃得过于频繁了，你扰乱了我的安静。"

影子答道："不是我，不是我。朝天空看吧。有一棵树，在太阳和大地之间，在风中左右摇晃着哩。"

青草便抬起头来，第一次看到了那榆树。青草在心中忖思："哎，瞧瞧，有一棵比我还大的青草哩。"

于是青草就默不作声了。

the shadow

upon a june day the grass said to the shadow of an elm tree, "you move to right and left over-often, and you disturb my peace." 

and the shadow answered and said, "not i, not i. look skyward. there is a tree that moves in the wind to the east and to the west, between the sun and the earth." 

and the grass looked up, and for the first time beheld the tree. and it said in its heart, "why, behold, there is a larger grass than myself." 

and the grass was silent. 

www.xiaoshuotxt.com



七十岁

［小.说.t.xt＾天）堂）
七十岁

青年诗人对公爵夫人说："我爱你。"公爵夫人答道："我也爱你，我的孩子。"

"然而我不是你的孩子。我是个男子汉，而且我爱你。"

公爵夫人说："我是我的子女的母亲；我的子女又是他们的子女的父母；我的一个孙子，年纪比你还大哩。"

诗人道："然而我爱你。"

不久以后，公爵夫人死了。但是，在公爵夫人的最后一口气被大地的呼吸容纳之前，她在内心深处说道："我的亲爱的，我的推一的孩子，我的青年诗人啊，将来有朝一日也许我们会重新见面的，而我也不是七十岁。"

seventy

the poet youth said to the princess, "i love you." and the princess answered, "and i love you too, my child." 

"but i am not your child. i am a man and i love you." 

and she said, "i am the mother of sons and daughters, and they are fathers and mothers of sons and daughters; and one of the sons of my sons is older than you." 

and the poet youth said, "but i love you." 

it was not long after that the princess died. but ere her last breath was received again by the greater breath of earth, she said within her soul, "my beloved, mine only son, my youth-poet, it may yet be that some day we shall meet again, and i shall not be seventy."

ww　w.xＩaoshuotxt.。com



纪伯伦散文-流浪者寻神

?小说/tＸt|天堂
寻神

两个人在山谷里行走，其中一人遥指山腰说道："你看见了那隐遁的庵舍吗？那儿住着一个人，他同世界隔绝已经好久好久了。他对尘世一无所求，他只是一味的寻神。"

另一个人说道：她是不会找到神的，除非他离开他的隐遁庵舍。抛弃他的离群索居，回到我们的世界上来，与我们同甘共苦，在婚筵上和我们一同跳舞，同围着死者的棺材痛哭的人们一起痛哭。"

第一个人从心底里被他说服了，可他虽然心服，还是回答道："你所说的话我都同意，然而我相信那隐士是个善良的人。一个善良的人遗世独立，较之那末一些人的伪善虚情，倒是更有益于人世，这难道不好吗？"

finding god

two men were walking in the valley, and one man pointed with his finger toward the mountain side, and said, "see you that hermitage? there lives a man who has long divorced the world. he seeks but after god, and naught else upon this earth." 

and the other man said, "he shall not find god until he leaves his hermitage, and the aloneness of his hermitage, and returns to our world, to share our joy and pain, to dance with our dancers at the wedding feast, and to weep with those who weep around the coffins of our dead." 

and the other man was convinced in his heart, though in spite of his conviction he answered, "i agree with all that you say, yet i believe the hermit is a good man. and it may it not well be that one good man by his absence does better than the seeming goodness of these many men?"

ＷＷw.xiＡosＨuotxt.ＣＯＭ



纪伯伦散文-流浪者大河

小说-txt天堂
大河

在大河奔流的卡迪沙流域，两条小溪相会交谈。

一条小溪说："我的朋友，你怎么流过来的，你流过的途径如何？"另一条小溪答道："我的途径是最难走的了。磨坊的水轮坏死了，经常把我从渠道里引导到他的农作物；那儿去的农民死了。我排除着人们的污秽，挣扎着流将下来；那些人啥也不干，只是懒洋洋地晒太阳。不过，我的兄弟，你流过的途径又如何呢？"第一条小溪答道："我的途径截然不同。我从山上芬芳花卉和腼腆杨柳之间流将下来，男男女女用银杯喝水，小孩儿们用玫瑰红的小脚在溪边戏水，我的周围都是欢笑声，还有甜蜜的歌声，你的途径竟那本不愉快，真是遗憾。"

这时候，大河用洪亮的声音说道："流进来吧，流进来吧，咱们要奔流到海里。流进来吧，流进来吧，别多言多语了。现在跟我合流吧。咱们要奔流到海里。流进来吧，流进来吧，因为你们一进人我的河床，就会把你们的流浪忘掉了，不论它是苦是乐。流进来吧，流进来吧。一旦咱们到达咱们的母亲——大海——的心里，你们和我就会把咱们流过的途径都忘掉了。"

the river

in the valley of kadisha where the mighty river flows, two little streams met and spoke to one another. 

one stream said, "how came you, my friend, and how was your path?" 

and the other answered, "my path was most encumbered. the wheel of the mill was broken, and the master farmer who used to conduct me from my channel to his plants, is dead. i struggled down oozing with the filth of laziness in the sun. but how was your path, my brother?" 

and the other stream answered and said, "mine was a different path. i came down the hills among fragrant flowers and shy willows; men and women drank of me with silvery cups, and little children paddled their rosy feet at my edges, and there was laughter all about me, and there were sweet songs. what a pity that your path was not so happy." 

at that moment the river spoke with a loud voice and said, "come in, come in, we are going to the sea. come in, come in, speak no more. be with me now. we are going to the sea. come in, come in, for in me you shall forget you wanderings, sad or gay. come in, come in. and you and i will forget all our ways when we reach the heart of our mother the sea."

wwＷ．xiaＯshuo txt.com



两个猎人

小，说，t，xt，天，堂
两个猎人

五月里的一天，欢乐和哀愁在湖边相遇。她们互相招呼，在靠近湖水的地方坐下谈话。

欢乐谈到大地上的美丽事物，谈到山间林中日常生活的奇趣，谈到早晨和黄昏听见的歌声。

接着是哀愁说话，欢乐所说的种种她都同意；因为哀愁懂得光阴的魔力以及此中的美丽。

哀愁说到五月的田野和山间景象时，她也是滔滔不绝的。

欢乐和哀愁一起谈了好久，她们对她们所见识到的一切事物，观点都是一致的。

却说这时在湖水那一边走过两个猎人。猎人越过湖水遥望，其中一人说："我不知道这两个人是谁。"第二个猎人道："你说是两个人？我只看见一个人嘛。"

第一个猎人说："确实有两个人。"第二个猎人道："我看得见的，只有一个人；湖里也只有一个人的倒影。"

"不，有两个人，"第一个猎人道："平静湖水里也是两个人的倒影。"

可是第二个猎人又说：我只看见一个人。"第一个猎人又道："可是我明明白白看见两个人。"

直至今日，第二个猎人说第一个猎人眼花了，看一物而见两形，而第一个猎人则说道："我的朋友是多少有点儿盲目的。"

the two hunters

upon a day in may, joy and sorrow met beside a lake. they greeted one another, and they sat down near the quiet waters and conversed. 

joy spoke of the beauty which is upon the earth, and the daily wonder of life in the forest and among the hills, and of the songs heard at dawn and eventide. 

and sorrow spoke, and agreed with all that joy had said; for sorrow knew the magic of the hour and the beauty thereof. and sorrow was eloquent when he spoke of may in the fields and among the hills. 

and joy and sorrow talked long together, and they agreed upon all things of which they knew. 

now there passed by on the other side of the lake two hunters. and as they looked across the water one of them said, "i wonder who are those two persons?" and the other said, "did you say two? i see only one." 

the first hunter said, "but there are two." and the second said, "there is only one that i can see, and the reflection in the lake is only one." 

"nay, there are two," said the first hunter, "and the reflection in the still water is of two persons." 

but the second man said again, "only one do i see." and again the other said, "but i see two so plainly." 

and even unto this day one hunter says that the other sees double; while the other says, "my friend is somewhat blind."

wwＷ．xiaＯshuo txt.com



另一个流浪者

xiaoshuotxt
另一个流浪者   

有一次，我遇到了另一个流浪者。他也有点儿疯疯癫癫的，他对我如是说："我是一个流浪者。我时常觉得，我行走于尘世林儒之间。因为我的脑袋同地面的距离较之他们的脑袋同地面的距离，还要高出一百英尺光景，所以我的脑袋创造出更高更自由的思想。

"然而，说实在的，我并不是行走在他们之间，而是行走在他们之上，他们所能见的，不过是我在他们的开阔的田野里留下的足印而已。

"我时常听到他们在讨论我的足印，为我的足印的形状和大小而争论不休。因为有些人说：那些是远古时期猛妈在大地上浪游的脚印。而另外一些人说：非也，那些是陨石从遥远星球上落到地面上的遗迹。"然而，我的朋友，你却完全明白，它们不过是一个流浪者的足印罢了。"

the other wanderer

once on a time i met another man of the roads. he too was a little mad, and thus spoke to me: 

"i am a wanderer. oftentimes it seems that i walk the earth among pygmies. and because my head is seventy cubits farther from the earth than theirs, it creates higher and freer thoughts. 

"but in truth i walk not among men but above them, and all they can see of me is my footprints in their open fields. 

"and often have i heard them discuss and disagree over the shape and size of my footprints. for there are some who say, these are the tracks of a mammoth that roamed the earth in the far past. and others say, nay, these are places where meteors have fallen from the distant stars. 

"but you, my friend, you know full well that they are naught save the footprints of a wanderer."

www.xiaoshuotxt.com

TXT小说天堂  http://www.xiaoshuotxt.com，最有文艺气息的文学网站，手机直接阅读下载请登陆http://m.xiaoshuotxt.com，所有TXT电子书手机免费下载阅读，我们提供给您的小说不求最多，但求最经典最完整